# Collected quotations, from my reading, from (about) 1985 onwards.
# 
# This is a structured file, amenable to programmatic manipulation.
# The format is meant to be as easy to type in as possible, with little or no needless repetition.
# There should be no tabs, and the encoding should be UTF-8.
# 
# Watch out for weird apostrophes! ' Do a mass-replace.
# 
# The hierarchy/structure is 
#  author > title > quote
# The author and quote are always present; the title level may be absent, in the case of 
# quotes that aren't referenced to a specific work. 
#
# The order of authors is arbitrary. 
#  
# DATA TRICK: In the case of works such as the Bible, the author takes the special value 'ZzzUnknown'; this 
# has a SIDE EFFECT on the sorting, placing all such works at the very end.
#
# Occasional special symbols:
#  pre(...) - preserve white space (poetry)
#  em(...) - emphasis/italics

Carl Jung {
 Psychology and Alchemy {
   Experience, not books, is what leads to understanding.
 }
 
 Collected Works, v.10 {
   With many men of twenty-five the period of psychological puberty is not yet over.
 }
}

ZzzUnknown {
  Bhagavad Gita {
   Then his soul is like a lamp whose light is steady, for it burns in a shelter where no wind comes.
   
   Of prayers I am the prayer of silence; and of things that move not I am the Himalayas.
   
   For there is no man on earth who can fully renounce living work, but he who renounces the em(reward) of his work is 
   in truth a man of renunciation.
  }
}

ZzzUnknown {
  Upanishads {
   And in dreams the mind beholds its own immensity. What has been seen is seen again, and what has been heard is heard again. What has been felt 
   in different places or faraway regions returns to the mind again. Seen and unseen, heard and unheard, felt and not felt, the mind sees all, 
   since the mind is all.
   
   A man who knows this is not moved by grief or exultation on account of the evil or good he has done. 
   He goes beyond both. What is done or left undone grieves him not.
   
   The earth seems to rest in silent meditation; and the waters and the mountains and the sky and the heavens seem all to be in meditation.

   All beings are born in delusion, the delusion of division which comes from desire and hate.
   
   Let him not ponder on many words, for many words are weariness.
    
  }
}

ZzzUnknown {
  Gilgamesh {
   Abandon all possessions and look for life, despise worldly goods and save your soul alive.
   
   The dream was marvelous but the terror was great; we must treasure the dream whatever the terror.
  }
}

Sophocles {
  King Oedipus{
    Let all come out, however vile! 
  }
  Oedipus at Colonus {
    Time is awake. The wheel is turning.
  }
}

Goethe {
 Faust {
 pre(Two souls, alas, are housed within my breast, 
and each will wrestle for the mastery there.) 
 
 pre(A dose of that within your guts my boy,
and every other wench is Helen of Troy.)

 pre(And feel, in what that one look brings,
a beggar with the wealth of kings.) 
 }
}

Blake, William {
  The Marriage of Heaven and Hell{
     If the doors of perception were cleansed every thing would appear to man as it is, infinite. 
  }
 
 Introduction to Songs of Experience {
   pre(Hear the voice of the Bard!
Who Present, Past & Future sees; 
Whose ears have heard
The Holy Word
That walk'd among the ancient trees;)
 }

}

ZzzUnknown {
  Dhammapada {
   Do not what is evil. Do what is good. Keep your mind pure. That is the teaching of Buddha.
  }
}

Socrates {
 Now is the time that we were going, I to die and you to live; but which of us has the happier prospect is unknown to anyone but God. 
}

Nietzsche, Friedrich {
  Thus Spoke Zarathustra {
    "Behold, I am disease." - thus speaks the evil deed; that is its honesty.
  }
  
 Beyond Good and Evil {
 pre(- I do not like it.
- Why? 
- I am not up to it.
Has anyone ever answered like that?)
 }
}

Horace {
 Come, wanton winds, and blow my fears and sorrows to the Cretan sea! 
}

Meister Eckhart {
 One person who has mastered life is better than a thousand persons who have mastered only the contents of books.
 
 The just are they that take everything alike from God no matter what it is, big and little, good and bad, all the same, no more no less, but one thing like another.
 
 Turning and change lead nowhere; stopping, we progress.
 
 The soul is motionless when nothing whatever can perturb her, when she is neither glad nor sad and cannot be gladdened nor yet saddened, and when she has no need to cling to any creature.  
 
 Man's best chance of finding God is where he left him.
 
 I must let virtue go if I would see God face to face.
}

Aeschylus { 
  Prometheus Bound{
   More leisure than I wish is mine.
 }
}

ZzzUnknown {
  Mahabharata {
   Day after day and hour after hour, people die and corpses are carried along, yet the onlookers never realise that they are also to die one day, but think they will live forever. 
   This is the greatest wonder of the world.
  }
}

Brontë, Emily  {
    Julian M. and A.G. Rochelle{
    pre(Oh, dreadful is the check - intense the agony
When the ear begins to hear and the eye begins to see; 
When the pulse begins to throb, the brain to think again,
The soul to feel the flesh and the flesh to feel the chain!)
  }
}

Laing, R. D. {
 A man without a mask is indeed very rare.
 
 The Politics of Experience {
   We all live in the hope that authentic meeting between human beings can still occur.
   
   Human beings seem to have an almost unlimited capacity for self-deception, for deceiving themselves into taking their own lies for the truth. 
   
   We have to realize that we are as deeply afraid to live and to love as to die. 
 }
}

Trungpa, Chögyam {
 The attainment of enlightenment from ego's point of view is extreme death, the death of self, the death of me and mine, the death of the watcher.
 It is the ultimate and final disappointment. Treading the spiritual path is painful. It is a constant unmasking, peeling off 
 layer after layer of masks. It involves insult after insult.
 
 Chaos should be regarded as extremely good news.
 
 The real function of a spiritual friend is to insult you.
 
 Cutting Through Spiritual Materialism {
   Eventually we must give up trying to be something special. 
    
   In fact, the higher we go, the more we come down to earth. 
   
   Let people look at you and examine you. You are at their disposal. 
 }
}

Nin, Anaïs {
  Diary, v.3{
   There are only two kinds of freedom in the world: the freedom of the rich and powerful, and the freedom of the artist and the monk who renounce possessions. 
      
    Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one's courage.
   
    The young Americans show signs of total emotional atrophy. 
   
    "In my family", she said, "we did everything with enthusiasm. We even em(died) with enthusiasm!" 
  }
 
 Diary, v.5{
   The most tragic moment in human relationships is when we are given to see, accidentally, by a revealing word, or a moment of crisis, 
   the image which the other carries within himself of us, and we catch a glimpse of a stranger, or a caricature of ourselves. 
   
   The people around me are so standardized that they are colourless, anonymous, and have no distinguishing characteristics.
 }
}

Rimbaud, Arthur {
  Une saison en enfer{
   L'ennui n'est plus mon amour. 
   
   Il faut être absolument moderne.
  }
}

Dylan, Bob {
 pre(Well I'm living in a foreign country,
But I'm bound to cross the line.
Beauty walks a razor's edge,
Some day I'll make it mine.) 
 
 The ghost of 'lectricity howls in the bones of her face.
}

Shakespeare, William {
 They are but beggars who can count their worth. 
 
 O happy dagger! This is thy sheath; there rust, and let me die. 
 
 Chaos is come again. 
 
 I know a lady in Venice would have walked barefoot to Palestine for a touch of his nether lip.
 
 An admirable evasion of whoremaster man, to lay his goatish disposition to the charge of a star! 
 
 A plague upon your epileptic visage. 
 
 O wonder! How many goodly creatures are there here! How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world that has such people in it!
 
 ...and thence retire me to my Milan, where every third thought shall be of my grave.
 
 ...glad that you thus continue your resolve to suck the sweets of sweet philosophy.
 
  No profit grows where is no pleasure tane; in brief, sir, study what you most affect.
  
  Dwell I but in the suburbs of your good pleasure?
  
  ...Come, thick night, and pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell...
  
  pre(Canst thou not minister to a mind diseas'd 
Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow,
Raze out the written troubles of the brain,
And with some sweet oblivious antidote
Cleanse the stuff'd bosom of that perilous stuff
Which weighs upon the heart?)

  Romeo and Juliet {
    Earth has swallowed all my hopes but she...
    
    pre(But He that hath the steerage of my course
Direct my sail! On, lusty gentlemen.)

    Is this the poultice for my aching bones?
    
    pre(Death lies upon her like an untimely frost
Upon the sweetest flower of the field)
  }
  
  Hamlet {
    O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
    
    Come; the croaking raven doth bellow for revenge.
    
    What a piece of work is a man! How noble in reason! how infinite in faculties! in form and moving, how express and 
    admirable! in action, how like an angel! in apprehension, how like a god! the beauty of the world! the paragon of animals!
    And yet, to me, what is this quintessence of dust?
  }
  
  Much Ado About Nothing {
    What, my dear Lady Disdain? Are you yet living?
    
    O illegitimate construction! I scorn that with my heels.
    
    Hath no man's dagger here a point for me?
    
    O God, that I were a man! I would eat his heart in the market-place.
    
    I must discontinue your company.
  }
}

Gide, André  {
 Les nourritures terrestres {
   At last we end by saying that He - the Unfindable - is everywhere, anywhere, and kneel down at haphazard.
   
   There were days when simply repeating to myself that two and two still made four was enough to fill me with positive beatitude... and other days when it was completely indifferent to me.
   
   Books had taught me that every liberty is provisional and never anything but the power to choose one's slavery.
   
   Mere being became an immense delight to me.
   
   Everything is prepared for the organization of joy.
   
   From the day that I succeeded in persuading myself that I had no need to be happy, happiness began to dwell in me....
 }
}

Williams, Donna {
 Nobody Nowhere {
   I had multiple fractures of the soul.
   
   I stopped at a bus stop, happy to be alone in a quiet place; a nobody nowhere.
 }
}

Postman, Neil {
  Technopoly {
    Technopoly is a state of culture. It is also a state of mind. It consists in the deification of technology, 
    which means that the culture seeks its authorization in technology, and takes its orders from technology.
    
    It's a world in which the idea of human progress, as Bacon expressed it, has been replaced by the idea of technological progress.    
    
    I will go further: in Technopoly, all experts are invested with the charisma of priestliness. 
    
    I am constantly amazed at how obediently people accept explanations that begin with the words "the computer shows..." or 
    "the computer has determined..." It is Technopoly's equivalent of the sentence "It is God's will.", and the effect is roughly the same.
    
    The Technopoly story is without a moral centre. It puts in its place efficiency, interest, and economic advance. 
  }
  
  Amusing Ourselves To Death {
    In Huxley's vision, no Big Brother is required to deprive people of their autonomy, maturity, and history. As he saw it, 
    people will come to love their oppression, to adore the technologies that undo their capacities to think.
    
     Think of Richard Nixon, or Jimmy Carter, or Billy Graham, or even Albert Einstein, and what will come to your mind is an image, 
     a picture of face, most likely a face on a television screen (in Einstein's case, a photograph of a face). 
     Of words, nothing will come to mind. This is the difference between thinking in a word-centered culture and thinking in an image-centered culture.
     
     The problem is not that television presents us with entertaining subject matter, but that all subject matter is presented as 
     entertaining, which is another issue entirely.
     
     It is not merely that, on the television screen, entertainment is the metaphor for all discourse. It is that off the screen the same 
     metaphor prevails.
     
     All that has happened is that the public has adjusted to incoherence and been amused into indifference.
     Which is why Aldous Huxley would not in the least be surprised by the story. Indeed, he prophesized its coming.
     He believed that it is far more likely that the Western democracies will dance and dream themselves into oblivion than march into it, single file and manacled.
     Huxley grasped, as Orwell did not, that it is not necessary to conceal anything from a public insensible to contradiction and narcotized by technological diversions. 
     Although Huxley did not specify that television would be our main line to the drug, he would have no difficulty accepting Robert MacNeil's observation that "television is the soma of 
     Aldous Huxley's em(Brave New World)". Big Brother turns out to be Howdy Doody.
     
    In the Huxleyan prophecy, Big Brother does not watch us, by his choice; we watch him, by ours. There is no need for wardens,
    or gates or Ministries of Truth. When a population becomes distracted by trivia, when cultural life is redefined as a perpetual round of entertainments, 
    when serious public conversation becomes a form of baby-talk... then culture-death is a clear possibility.
    
    Public consciousness has not yet assimilated the point that technology is ideology...
  }
}

Huxley, Aldous {
  Brave New World {
    She thinks of herself that way. She doesn't mind being meat.
    
    The loving cup of strawberry ice-cream soma was passed from hand to hand and, with the formula "I drink to my annihilation," twelve times quaffed.
    
    He was a mine of irrelevant information.
    
    He had discovered Time and Death and God.
    
    But industrial civilization is only possible when there's no self-denial. 
    Self-indulgence up to the very limits imposed by hygiene and economics. Otherwise the wheels stop turning.
    
    And if ever, by some unlucky chance, anything unpleasant should somehow happen, why, there's always soma to give you a holiday from the facts.
  }
}

O'Brien, Flann {
  At Swim-Two-Birds {
    "It is true that I will not", said Finn MacCool.
    
    I poked him in a manner offensive to propriety and greeted his turned face with a facetious ejaculation: "How is the boy!", I said.
    
    The weather in the following March was cold, with snow and rain, and generally dangerous to persons of inferior vitality.
    
    That, I answered, would be the chiefest wisdom. 
    
    Take all that shall be brought upon thee, and keep patience, for gold and silver are tried in the fire, but acceptable men in the 
    furnace of humiliation.
    
    ...they wildly reproached each other with bitter words and groundless accusations of bastardy and low birth...
    
    Blackheads are not so bad, said Furriskey. A good big boil on the back of your neck, that's the boy that will make you say your prayers at night. 
    A boil is a fright. It's a fright now.
  }
}

Thoreau, H. D. {
  No man is rich enough to keep a poet in his pay.
  
  Walden {
    For many years I was self-appointed inspector of snow storms and rain storms, and did my duty faithfully.
    
    But lo! men have become the tools of their tools.
    
    Even in our New England towns the accidental possession of wealth, and its manifestations in dress and equipage alone, 
    obtain for the possessor almost universal respect.
    
    A lady once offered me a mat, but as I had no room to spare within the house, nor time to spare within or without to shake it, I declined it, 
    preferring to wipe my feet on the sod before my door. It is best to avoid the beginnings of evil.

    Time is but the stream I go a-fishin in.
    
    I find it wholesome to be alone the greater part of the time. To be in company, even with the best, is soon wearisome and dissipating. 
    I love to be alone. I never found the companion so companionable as solitude.
    
    Give me the poverty that enjoys true wealth.
    
    A farmer, a hunter, a soldier, a reporter, even a philosopher, may be daunted; but nothing can deter a poet, for he is actuated by pure love. 
    Who can predict his comings and goings?
    
    As if you could kill time without injuring eternity.
  
    Our lives are frittered away in detail... Simplify, simplify.
  }
}

Nabokov, Vladimir {
 Lolita {
   In and out of my heart flowed my rainbow blood.
 }
}

Beauchemin, Yves {
  The Alleycat{
    What's come over you? Have you found a Rembrandt in your basement?
    
    ...as empty as the inside of your shiny skull.
    
    A kitchen should look like an operating room. The most tenacious germ should die in an hour, of melancholy.
    
    Save your tears to salt your soup.
  }
}

Carrier, Roch {
 Fin {
   Il y a plus de bonheur dans le désir que dans sa satisfaction.
   
   Le suicide est un manque d'humour absolu.
 }
}

Infeld, Leopold {
  Quest {
    This law [objects all fall at the same speed], so simple that it is nearly obvious, is only three hundred years old!
    
    To ponder a problem for ten years without any encouragement from the outside world requires strength of character. 
    This strength of character, perhaps more than his great intuition and imagination, lead to Einstein's scientific achievements. 
    
    We are slaves to bathrooms, frigidaires, cars, radios, and millions of other things. Einstein tried to reduce them to the absolute minimum.
    
    But through all the stream of events, the impact of people and social life forced upon him, Einstein remains lonely, loving solitude, 
    isolation, and conditions which secure undisturbed work.
  }
}

Drake, Stillman {

 Galileo: Pioneer Scientist {
   ...P.A.M Dirac is said to have usually opened his course in quantum mechanics with the remark: "The existence of an external world is assumed. 
   That is all the metaphysics you will need for this course."
 }
}

Seneca, Lucio Anneo {
  Establish business relations with poverty.
  
  Contented poverty is an honourable estate.
  
  When Zeno received news of a shipwreck and heard that all his luggage had been sunk, he said, "Fortune 
  bids me to be a less encumbered philosopher."
  
  Un grande anima si esprime con più calma e serenità.
  
  Insegnami che il bene della vita non consiste nella sua durata, ma nel suo uso.
  
  Viviamo tra cose tutte destinate a morire.
}

Epictetus {
  And if you meet anything that is laborious, or sweet, or held in high repute, or in no repute, remember that em(now) is the 
  contest, and here before you are the Olympic games, and that it is impossible to delay any longer, and that it depends on a 
  single day and a single action, whether progress is lost or saved.
  
  ...we prefer to practise and rehearse anything rather than how to be untrammelled and free.
  
  For the origin of sorrow is this - to wish for something that does not come to pass.
  
  And I am not saying that it is not permissible to groan, only do not groan in  the centre of your being.
  
  Although life is a matter of indifference, the use which you make of it is not a matter of indifference.
  
  Socrates never got wrought up during an argument, never used any term of abuse or insolence, but endured the abuse of others, and put an end to strife.
  
  "When, then, shall I see Athens once more and the Acropolis?" Poor man, are you not satisfied with what you are seeing every day?
  Have you anything finer or greater to look at than the sun, the moon, the stars, the whole Earth, the sea?
  And if you really understand Him that governs the Universe, and bear Him about within you, do you yet yearn for bits of stone 
  and a pretty rock?
}

Hugo, Victor {
 Quatre-vingt-treize {
   pre(- Préparez-vous.
- A quoi?
- A mourir.
- Pourquoi? demanda le vieillard.)
 }
}

Musset, Alfred de {
  Fantasio {
    Saint-Jean est mort? Le bouffon du roi est mort? Qui a pris sa place? le ministre de la justice?
    
    Je ne sais s'il y a une providence, mais c'est amusant d'y croire.
    
    Un gentilhomme sans dettes ne saurait où se présenter.
  }
 
  Les caprices de Marianne{
      Un vide que je ne saurais exprimer et que je communique en vain à cette large coupe.
  } 

  André del Sarto {
    On travaille pour vivre, et les arts deviennent des métiers.
    
    Que de jeunes mains, pleines de force et de vie, reçoivent avec respect le flambeau sacré des mains tremblantes des vieillards! 
    qu'ils la protègent du soufle des vents, cette flamme divine qui traversera les siècles futurs, comme elle a fait des siècles passés! 
    .... a l'ouvrage! a l'ouvrage! la vie est si courte!
  }  
}

Giradoux, Jean {
  Ondine {
    Plus on souffre, plus on est heureux.
    
    A babord le néant, à tribord l'oubli...
  }
}

Joyce, James {
  Araby {
    I had never spoken to her, except for a few casual words, and yet her name was like a summons to all my foolish blood.
  }
  After the Race {
    The car ran on merrily with its cargo of hilarious youth.
  }
  Two Gallants {
    That takes the solitary, unique, and, if I may so call it, em(recherché) biscuit!
    
    Most people considered Lenehan a leech but, in spite of this reputation, his adroitness and eloquence had always prevented his friends from 
    forming any general policy against him.
    
    His head was large, globular, and oily; it sweated in all weathers...
    
    Experience had embittered his heart against the world.
  }
  The Boarding House {
    She dealt with moral problems as a clever deals with meat.
  }
  A Painful Case {
    No one wanted him; he was outcast from life's feast.
  }
  Ulysses {
    Isn't the sea what Algy calls it? a grey sweet mother? The snotgreen sea. The scrotumtightening sea.
    
    You behold in me, Stephen said with grim displeasure, a horrible example of free thought.
    
    He laid the dry snot picked from his nostril on a ledge of rock, carefully. For the rest let look on that will.
    
    ...papa's little lump of dung...
    
    Mr. Bloom admired the caretaker's prosperous bulk.
    
    Thanky vous.
    
    I speak the tongue of a race whose acme of mentality is the maxim: time is money.
    Material domination. Dominus! Lord! Where is the spirituality? Lord Jesus! Lord Salisbury. A sofa in a west end club. 
    But the Greek!
    
    He can kiss my royal Irish arse.
    
    Hot mockturtle vapor and steam of newbaked jampuffs rolypoly poured out from Harrison's. 
    The heavy noonreek tickled the top of Mr. Bloom's gullet.
    
    Head like a prize pumpkin.
    
    Mighty cheese.
    
    Joy: I ate it: joy.
    
    Interesting only to the parish clerk. I mean, we have the plays. I mean when we read the poetry of King Lear 
    what is it to us how the poet lived? As for living, our servants can do that for us, Villiers de l'Isle has said.
    
    I asked him what he thought of the charge of pederasty brought against the bard. He 
    lifted his hands and said: All we can say is life ran very high in those days.
    
    O, the night in the Camden hall when the daughters of Erin had to lift their skirts to step over 
    you as you lay in your mulberrycouloured, multicoloured, multitudinous vomit!
    
    Mr. Bloom was rather inclined to poohpooh the suggestion as egregious balderdash.
    
    Fine lump of a woman, all the same, the soi-disant town clerk, Henry Campbell remarked, and plenty of her.
    
    He kissed the plump mellow yellow smellow lemons of her rump, on each plump melonous hemisphere, in their 
    mellow yellow furrow, with obscure prolonged provocative mellonsmellonous osculation.
    
    Give us a squint at that literature, grandfather, the ancient mariner put in, manifesting some natural impatience.
    
    The night air was certainly a treat to breathe though Stephen was a bit weak on his pins.
    
    Little monkeys common as ditchwater.
    
    The heaventree of stars hung with humid nightblue fruit.
    
    ...the seaweedy rocks.
    
    This was so happy a conceit that it renewed the storms of mirth and threw the whole room into the most 
    violent agitations of delight.
    
    A monstrous fine bit of cowflesh.
    
    There too, opposite to him was Lynch, whose countenance bore already the stigmata of early depravity and premature wisdom.
  }
}

Chariton {
  Callirhoe{
    ...are you not ashamed to be suffering the heartache of a boy?
    
    ...I, an islander born, am enclosed in the depths of a barbarian continent where no sea exists.
  }

}

Petronius {
  Satyricon {
    But are not all the finest works of nature common property?
    The sun shines upon all men. The Moon with countless troops of stars in her train leads even the beasts to their food. 
    Can we imagine anything more lovely than water?
    Yet it flows for all the world.
  }
}

Hardy, Thomas {
  The Return of the Native {
    He had been a lad of whom something was expected. 
    Beyond this all had been chaos. That he would be successful in an original way, or that he would go to the dogs in an original way, 
    seemed equally probable. The only absolute certainty about him was that he would not stand still in the circumstances amid which he was born.
    
    He had reached the stage in a young man's life when the grimness of the general human situation first becomes clear;
    and the realization of this causes ambition to halt awhile. 
    In France it is not uncustomary to commit suicide at this stage; in England we do much better, or much worse, as  the case may be.
    
    There is a certain degree and tone of light which tends to disturb the equilibrium of the senses, and to promote 
    dangerously the tenderer moods...
    
    But I am getting used to the horror of my existence.
  }
  
  Far From the Madding Crowd {
    ...and used all the hair-oil he possessed upon his usually dry, sandy, and inextricably curly hair, till he had deepened it to a splendidly 
    novel color, between that of guano and Roman cement, making it stick to his head like mace round a nutmeg, or wet sea-weed round a 
    boulder after the ebb.    
    
    The dog took no notice, for he had arrived at an age at which all superfluous barking was cynically avoided as 
    a waste of breath - in fact, he never barked even at the sheep except to order, when it was done with an absolutely neutral countenance, 
    as a sort of Commination-service which, though offensive, had to be gone through once now and then to frighten the flock for their own good.
    
    Seeing his advance take the form of an attitude threatening a possible enclosure, if not compression, of her person, she edged off around the 
    bush.
    
    ...a young married man, who having no individuality worth mentioning was known as "Susan Tall's husband".
    
    Kiss my foot, sir; my face is for mouths of consequence.
    
    The throw was the idea of a man conjoined with the execution of a woman. No man who had ever seen bird, rabbit, or squirrel in his childhood, 
    could possibly have thrown with such utter imbecility as was shown here.
  }
  
  Life's Little Ironies {
    He himself was full of vague latter-day glooms and popular melancholies.
    
    There were tones in it which bred the immediate conviction that indolence and averseness to systematic application were all that lay between 
    "Mop" and the career of a second Paganini.
    
    Occasionally Mop could produce the aforesaid moving effect upon the souls of grown-up persons, 
    especially young women of fragile and responsive organization.
    
    ...his was a nature not greatly dependent upon the ministrations of the other sex for its comforts.
    
    Too steady-going to be "a buck" (as fast and unmarried men were then called), he was an approximately fashionable man of 
    mild type.
  }
   
  Jude the Obscure {
    Necessary meditations on the actual, including the mean bread-and-cheese question, dissipated the phantasmal for a while, and 
    compelled Jude to smother higher thinkings under immediate needs.
    
    The barmaid concocted the mixture with the bearing of a person compelled to live amongst animals of an inferior species...
    
    Here he stood, looking forth at the school, whence he could hear the usual sing-song tones of the 
    little voices that had not learnt Creation's groan.
  }
  
  Under the Greenwood Tree {
    "Well!", said Mrs. Penny, flopping into a chair, "my heart hasn't been in such a thumping state of uproar since I used to sit up 
    on old Midsummer-eves to see who my husband was going to be."
    
    "I fancy I've seen him look across at Miss Day in a warmer way than Christianity asked for..."
    
    ...it was an accepted thing that Leaf didn't in the least mind having no head, that deficiency of his being an 
    unimpassioned matter of parish history.
    
    Thereupon he plunged in his hands, and they paddled together. It being the first time in his life that he touched female 
    fingers under water, Dick duly registered the sensation as rather a nice one.
    
    ...they were never to be seen drawing the back of the hand across the mouth after drinking - a local English custom of 
    extraordinary antiquity, but stated by Fancy to be decidedly dying out among the better classes of society.
  }
  
  A Pair of Blue Eyes {
    A delightful place to be buried in, postulating that delight can accompany a man to his tomb under any circumstances.
    
    ...the eternal hills and tower behind them were grayish-brown; the sky, dropping behind all, grey of the 
    purest melancholy.
    
    I always did doubt a man's being a gentleman if his palate has no acquired tastes. 
    An unedified palate is the irrepressible cloven foot of the upstart.
  }
  The Woodlanders {
    For answer she ran off into the gloom of the sluggish dawn.
    
    As in most villages so secluded as this, intermarriages were of Hapsburgian frequency among the inhabitants...
    
    ...with a sudden start he worked on, climbing higher into the sky, and cutting himself off more and more from all 
    intercourse with the sublunary world.
    
    Grace heaved a divided sigh, with a tense pause between, and moved onward, her heart feeling 
    uncomfortably big and heavy, and her eyes wet.
    
    The young lady remained in his thoughts. He might have followed her; but he was not constitutionally active, and 
    preferred a conjectural pursuit.
    
    Fitzpiers examined so closely that his breath touched her tenderly, at which their eyes rose to 
    an encounter - hers showing themselves as deep and mysterious as interstellar space.
  }
  The Trumpet-Major {
    He threw fictitiousness into his very gait, even now, when there was nobody to see him, and struck out at stems 
    of wild parsley with his regimental switch as he had used to do when soldiering was new to him, and life in general a 
    charming experience.
  }
  A Group of Noble Dames {
    After this they lived quietly and uneventfully for two or three years at Sir Ashley Mattisfont's residence in 
    that part of England, with as near an approach to bliss as the climate of this country allows.
  }
}


Blair, Hugh {
  Lectures on Rhetoric and Belles Lettres {
    This artificial method of communicating thought, we now behold carried to the highest perfection. 
    Language is become a vehicle by which the most delicate and refined emotions of one mind can be transmitted, or, if we may so speak, 
    transfused into another. Not only are names given to all objects around us, by which means an easy and speedy intercourse is carried 
    on for providing the necessaries of life, but all the relations and differences among these objects are minutely marked, the 
    invisible sentiments of the mind are described, the most abstract notions and conceptions are rendered intelligible; 
    and all the ideas which science can discover, or imagination create, are known by their proper names...
    The object is become familiar; and, like the expanse of the firmament, and other great objects, which we are accustomed to behold, 
    we behold it without wonder.
    
    And hence, if our Language, by reason of the simple arrangement of its words, possesses less harmony, less beauty, and less force,
    than the Greek or Latin; it is, however, in its meaning, more obvious and plain.
    
   ...we must not forget to observe, that spoken language has a great superiority over written language, in point of energy or force.
   The voice of the living speaker makes impression on the mind, much stronger than can be made by the perusal of any writing. 
   
   em(It), is the most general term that can possibly be conceived, as it may stand for any one thing in the universe of which we speak. 
   
   The Greek, which is the most perfect of all the known tongues, is very regular and complete in all the moods and tenses. 
   The Latin, though formed on the same model, is not so perfect; particularly in the passive voice, which forms most of the tenses, 
   by the help of the auxiliary "sum".
   
   It [French] is, perhaps, the happiest language for conversation, in the known world; but on the higher subjects of composition, 
   the English may be justly esteemed greatly to excel it considerably.
   
   Perspicuity, it will be readily admitted, is the fundamental quality of Style; a quality so essential in every kind of Writing, 
   that for the want of it, nothing can atone. Without this, the richest ornaments of Style only glimmer through the dark; and puzzle 
   instead of pleasing the reader. This, therefore, must be our first object, to make our meaning clearly and fully understood, and 
   understood without the least difficulty. 
   "Discourse" says Quintilian, "ought always to be obvious, oven to the most careless and negligent hearer, so that the sense shall strike his mind, 
   as the light of the sun does our eyes, though they are not directed upwards to it. We must study, not only that every hearer may 
   understand us, but that it shall be impossible for him not to understand us."
   
   We are pleased with an author, we consider him as deserving praise, who frees us from all fatigue of searching for his meaning; 
   who carries us through his subject without any embarrassment or confusion; whose style flows always like a limpid stream, where
   we see to the very bottom.
   
   A multitude of Latin words have of late been poured in upon us.
   
   The words which a man uses to express his ideas, may be faulty in three respects; they may either not express that idea which the author 
   intends, but some other which only resembles, or is akin to it; or, they may express that idea,
   but not quite fully and completely; or, they may express it, together with something more than he intends. 
   Precision stands opposed to all these three faults; but chiefly to the last.
   
   The use and importance of Precision, may be deduced from the nature of the human mind. It never can view, clearly and distinctly, 
   above one object at a time.   
   
   Thought and language act and re-act upon each other mutually. Logic and rhetoric have here, as in many other cases, a strict connexion; 
   and he that is learning to arrange his sentences with accuracy and order, is learning, at the same time, to think with accuracy and order... 

   To pronounce with a proper degree of slowness, and with a full and clear articulation, is the first thing to be studied by all who begin 
   to speak in public; and cannot be too much recommended to them.
  }
}

Longinus {
  On the Sublime{
    ...it is not right to display the triviality of one's mind before an audience of all the ages.
    
    ... what wastes the talents of the present generation is the idleness in which all but a few of us pass our lives, only exerting ourselves 
    or showing any enterprise for the sake of getting praise or pleasure out of it, never from the honourable and admirable motive of doing 
    good to the world.
  }
}

Maupassant, Guy de {
  Â Vendre {
    Partir à pied, quand le soleil se lève, et marcher dans la rosée, le long des champs,
    au bord de la mer calme, quelle ivresse!
  }
  Découverte {
    Moi je crois que ce qui nous séduit le plus dans les exotiques, c'est leur défaut de prononciation. 
    Aussitôt qu'une femme parle mal notre langue, elle est charmante; si elle fait une faute de français par mot, elle 
    est exquise, et si elle baragouine d'une façon tout à fait inintelligible, elle devient irrésistible.
  }
  Solitude {
    Quoi que nous tentions, quoi que nous fassions, quels que soient l'élan de nos coeurs, l'appel de nos 
    lèvres et l'étreinte de nos bras, nous sommes toujours seuls.
  }
  Monsieur Parent {  
    Les années se suivaient, lentes, monotones, et courtes parce qu'elles étaient vides.
  }
  La morte {
   Comme elle est petite cette ville à côté de l'autre, celle ou l'on vit! Et pourtant comme ils sont plus nombreux que les vivants, ces morts. 
   Il nous faut de hautes maisons, des rues, tant de place, pour les quatre générations qui regardent le jour en même temps, 
   boivent l'eau des sources, le vin des vignes et mangent le pain des plaines. Et pour toute les générations des morts, pour toute 
   l'échelle de l'humanité descendue jusqu'à nous, presque rien, un champ, presque rien! La terre les reprend, l'oubli les efface. Adieu!
  }
  L'inutile beauté {
    Qu'y a-t-il, en effet, de plus ignoble, de plus répugnant que cet acte ordurier et ridicule de la reproduction des 
    êtres, contre lequel toutes les âmes delicates sont et seront éternellement révoltées?
  }
  Mont Oriol {
    ...elle consentit à épouser ce gros garçon très riche, qui n'était pas laid, mais qui ne lui plaisait guère, comme elle 
    aurait consenti à passer un été dans un pays désagréable.
    
    Ah!, vous ne comprenez pas, vous autres, comme c'est amusant, les affaires, non pas les affaires des 
    marchands ou des commerçants, mais les grandes affaires, les nôtres! Oui, mon cher, quand on les entend bien, 
    cela résume tout ce qu'ont aimé les hommes, c'est en même temps la politique, la guerre, la diplomatie, tout, tout! 
    Il faut toujours chercher, trouver, inventer, tout comprendre, tout prévoir, tout combiner, tout oser. Le grand combat, 
    aujourd'hui, c'est avec l'argent qu'on le livre. 
    
    C'est bon, dit-il, d'être jeune, quelquefois.
    
    Laissez donc, dit-il, je la connais, leur intelligence, à tous ces brasseurs d'affaires. Ils n'ont qu'une chose en 
    tête : l'argent! Toutes les pensées que nous donnons aux belles choses, tous les actes que nous perdons pour nos 
    caprices, toutes les heures que nous jetons à nos distractions, toute la force que nous gaspillons pour nos plaisirs, 
    toute l'ardeur et toute la puissance que nous prend l'amour, l'amour divin, ils les emploient à chercher de l'or,
    à songer à l'or, à amasser de l'or! L'homme, l'homme intelligent, vit pour toutes les grandes tendresses 
    désintéressées, les arts, l'amour, la science, les voyages, les livres; et s'il cherche l'argent, c'est parce 
    que cela facilite les joies réelles de l'esprit et même le bonheur du cœur! Mais eux, ils n'ont rien dans l'esprit 
    et dans le coeur que ce goût ignoble du trafic! Ils ressemblent aux hommes de valeur, ces écumeurs de la vie, comme 
    le marchand de tableaux ressemble au peintre, comme l'éditeur ressemble à l'écrivain, comme le directeur de théâtre 
    ressemble au poète.    
    
    Elle ne les vit pas, ou ne les reconnut point. Toute pâle sur son oreiller blanc, avec ses cheveux blonds répandus 
    sur ses épaules, elle regardait, de ses clairs yeux bleus, le monde inconnu, mystérieux et fantastique où vivent les fous.
  }
  Au printemps {
    Oh! cet oeil de la femme, quelle puissance il a! Comme il trouble, envahit, possède, domine. Comme il semble profond, 
    plein de promesses, d'infini! On appelle cela se regarder dans l'âme! Oh! monsieur, quelle blague! Si l'on y voyait, 
    dans l'âme, on serait plus sage, allez.    
  }
  Les tombales {
    Et puis, j'aime aussi les cimetières, parce que ce sont des villes monstrueuses, prodigieusement habitées. 
    Songez donc à ce qu'il y a de morts dans ce petit espace, à toutes les générations de Parisiens qui sont logés 
    là, pour toujours, troglodytes définitifs enfermés dans leurs petits caveaux, dans leurs petits trous couverts 
    d'une pierre ou marqués d'une croix, tandis que les vivants occupent tant de place et font tant de bruit, ces imbéciles.
  }
  Ma femme {
    J'avais trente-cinq ans, et je ne pensais pas plus à me marier qu'à me pendre. 
  }
  Une vie {
    Quelques pigeons se promenaient au bord du ruisseau, cherchant leur vie.
  }
  Qui sait? {
    Je ne refuse pas de voir le monde, de causer, de dîner avec des amis, mais lorsque je les sens depuis 
    longtemps près de moi, même les plus familiers, ils me lassent, me fatiguent, m'énervent, et j'éprouve 
    une envie grandissante, harcelante, de les voir partir ou de m'en aller, d'être seul.    
  } 
  Fort comme la mort {
    Ils sont incapables de s'attacher à une chose jusqu'à l'aimer uniquement, de s'intéresser à rien jusqu'à 
    être illuminés par le bonheur de comprendre.    
  }
  L'ermite {
    ...ceux qui n'ont pas aimé poétiquement prennent et choisissent les femmes comme on choisit une côtelette 
    à la boucherie, sans s'occuper d'autre chose que de la qualité de leur chair.    
  }
  La Sicile {
    L'architecture est morte aujourd'hui, en ce siècle encore artiste, pourtant, mais qui semble avoir
    perdu le don de faire de la beauté avec des pierres, le mystérieux secret de la séduction par les lignes, 
    le sens de la grâce dans les monuments. Nous paraissons ne plus comprendre, ne plus savoir que la seule 
    proportion d'un mur peut donner à l'esprit la même sensation de joie artistique, la même émotion secrète 
    et profonde qu'un chef-d'oeuvre de Rembrandt, de Velasquez ou de Véronèse.
  }
  Sur l'eau {
    Mais d'autres hommes, parcourant d'un éclair de pensée le cercle étroit des satisfactions possibles, 
    demeurent atterrés devant le néant du bonheur, la monotonie et la pauvreté des joies terrestres.    
    
    O liberté! liberté! seul bonheur, seul espoir et seul rêve!
    
    Certes, en certains jours, j'éprouve l'horreur de ce qui est jusqu'à désirer la mort. Je sens jusqu'à la souffrance 
    suraiguë la monotonie invariable des paysages, des figures et des pensées. Le médiocrité de l'univers m'étonne 
    et me révolte, la petitesse de toutes choses m'emplit de dégoût, la pauvreté des êtres humains m'anéantit.
    
    Comme je l'aime, cette dédicace de Jules Vallès: «A tous ceux qui, nourris de grec et de latin, sont morts de faim.»
  }
  Notre Coeur {
    Mais les mots noirs sur le papier blanc, c'est l'âme toute nue.
  }
  Oeuvres posthumes {
    Les mots ont une âme.
    
    La profonde et délicieuse jouissance qui vous monte au coeur devant certaines pages, 
    devant certaines phrases, ne vient pas seulement de ce qu'elles disent; elle vient d'une accordance absolue de l'expression 
    avec l'idée, d'une sensation d'harmonie, de beauté secrète, échappant la plupart du temps au jugement des foules.
    
    Il [Flaubert] avait pour les grands écrivains français une admiration frénétique; il possédait par 
    coeur des chapitres entiers des maîtres, et il les déclamait d'une voix tonnante, grisé par la prose,
    faisant sonner les mots, scandant, modulant, chantant la phrase.
    
    La misanthropie de ses oeuvres [Flaubert] ne vient pas d'autres chose. La saveur amère qui s'en degage n'est que 
    cette constante constatation de la médiocrité, de la banalité, de la sottise sous toutes les formes.
 
    Elle sait pourtant qu'elle va mourir, qu'elle ne verra point le printemps, que dans un an, le long de la même promenade,
    ces mêmes gens qui passent devant elle viendront encore respirer l'air tiède de ce doux pays, avec leurs enfants un peu plus
    grands, avec le coeur toujours rempli d'espoirs, de tendresses, de bonheur, tandis qu'au fond d'un cercueil de chêne la 
    pauvre chair que lui reste encore aujourd'hui sera tombée en pourriture, laissant seulement ses os couchés dans la robe
    de soit qu'elle a choisie pour linceul.
  }
}


Vidal, Gore {
  Myra Breckenridge {
    No man will ever possess Myra Breckinridge, though she will possess men, in her own good time and in ways convenient to her tyrannous lust.
  }
}

Tolstoy, Leo {
  The Kreutzer Sonata {
    ...the nakedness of woman already tormented me. The hours I spent alone were not pure ones.
    
    It's really quite remarkable how complete the illusion is that beauty is the same as goodness.
    
    A honeymoon is an embarrassing, shameful, loathsome, pathetic business, and most of all it is tedious, unbearably tedious!
    It is something similar to what I experienced when I was learning how to smoke. I felt like vomiting, my saliva flowed, but I swallowed it 
    and pretended I was enjoying myself.
    
    In town a man can live for a hundred years and never notice that he's long dead and buried.
    There's never any time to study your conscience; you're busy all the time.
  }
  Hadji Murad {
    All this was as it should be, because the welfare and happiness of the whole world depended on him,
    and wearied though he was, he would still not refuse the universe his assistance.
  }
  War and Peace {
    Unhappiness arises not from privation but from superfluity.
    
    But despite the fact that the doctors treated him, bled him, and gave him medicines to drink, he recovered.
    
    Here Prince Hippolyte paused, evidently collecting his ideas with some difficulty.
    
    Silence ensued.
    
    Count Rostov was displeased to see that the company consisted almost entirely of men and women known for the freedom of 
    their conduct.
  }
  Anna Karenina {
    And so the liberal tendency became a habit with Stepan Arkadyich, and he liked his newspaper, as he 
    liked his cigar after dinner, for the slight haze it produced in his head.
    
    The conversation never flagged for a minute, so that the old princess, who, in case a topic was 
    lacking, always kept two heavy cannon in reserve - classical versus modern education, and 
    general military conscription - did not have to move them up...
    
    ...but Vronsky went on looking at him as at a lamppost, and the young man grimaced, feeling that he 
    was losing his self-possession under the pressure of this non-recognition of himself as a human being.
    
    It showed him the eternal error people make in imagining that happiness is the realization of desires.
    
    There are no conditions to which a person cannot grow accustomed, especially if he sees that everyone 
    around him lives in the same way.
  }
}

Lafferrière, Dany {
  Pays sans chapeau {
    Juste au pied du morne Nelhio, le cimetière de Port-au-Prince, comme un lot de diamants mal taillés. 
    C'est le lieu du rendez-vous générale.
  }
}

Eliot, George {
  Silas Marner {
    Moreover, he bore a swarthy foreignness of complexion which boded little honesty.
    
    ...there was no pleasant morning greeting between them; not because of any unfriendliness, but because
    the sweet flower of courtesy is not a growth of such homes as the Red House.
  }
  The Sad Fortunes of the Reverend Amos Barton {
    ...for in bucolic society five-and-twenty years ago, the human animal of the male sex was understood to be 
    perpetually athirst, and "something to drink" was as necessary a condition of thought as Time and Space.
    
    Every man who is not a monster, a mathematician, or a mad philosopher, is the slave of some woman or other.
    
    The snow lay thick upon the graves...
  }
  Mr. Gilfil's Love-Story {
    You already suspect that the Vicar did not shine in the more spiritual functions of his office; and indeed, the utmost 
    I can say for him in this respect is, that he performed those functions with undeviating attention to brevity and despatch.
  }
  Felix Holt, the Radical  {
    Harold Transome was neither the dissolute cosmopolitan so vigorously sketched by the em(Tory Herald), 
    nor the intellectual giant and moral lobster suggested by the liberal imagination of the em(Watchman).
    
    Harold preferred a slow-witted large-eyed woman, silent and affectionate, with a load of black hair 
    weighing much more heavily than her brains.
    
    No system, religious or political, I believe, has laid it down as a principle that all men are alike virtuous, or even that all
    the people rated for £80 houses are an honour to their species.
    
    It is not true that love makes all things easy: it makes us choose what is difficult.
    
    Mr. Jermyn's establishment was broken up, and he was understood to have gone to reside at a great distance: some 
    said "abroad", that large home of ruined reputations.
  }
  Middlemarch {
    Sane people did what their neighbours did, so that if any lunatics were at large, one might know and avoid them.
    
    Mr. Casaubon... concluded that the poets had much exaggerated the force of masculine passion.
    
    The remark was taken up by Mr. Chichely, a middle-aged bachelor and coursing celebrity, who had a 
    complexion something like an Easter egg, a few hairs carefully arranged, and a carriage 
    implying the consciousness of a distinguished appearance.
    
    Plain women he regarded as he did the other severe facts of life, to be faced with philosophy and investigated by science.
    
    Only a few children in Middlemarch looked blonde by the side of Rosamond, and the slim figure 
    displayed by her riding-habit had delicate undulations.
    
    The best piety is to enjoy - when you can. You are doing the most then to save the earth's character as an agreeable planet.
    
    "Now aunt," he went on, rubbing his hands and looking at Miss Noble, who was making tender little beaver-like noises...
    
    The iron had not entered his soul, but he had begun to imagine what the sharp edge would be.
    
    There was a table spread with the best cold eatables, as at a superior funeral.
    
    Explain my preference! I never had a em(preference) for her, any more than I have a preference for breathing.
    
    Far off in the bending sky was the pearly light; and she felt the largeness of the world and the 
    manifold wakings of men to labour and endurance.
  }
}

Baudelaire, Charles {
 pre(Ô Mort, vieux capitaine, il est temps! levons l'ancre! 
Ce pays nous ennuie, ô Mort! Appareillons!)
 
 Petits poèmes en prose {
   Grand délice que celui de noyer son regard dans l'immensité du ciel et de la mer! 
   Solitude, silence, incomparable chasteté de l'azur! 
   
   Multitude, solitude: termes égaux et convertibles pour le poëte actif et fécond. 
   Qui ne sait pas peupler sa solitude, ne sait pas non plus être seul dans une foule affairée.
   
   ...le bonheur est marié au silence.
   
   Ô nuit! ô rafraîchissantes ténèbres! vous êtes pour moi le signal d'une fête intérieure, 
   vous êtes la délivrance d'une angoisse! Dans la solitude des plaines, dans les labyrinthes 
   pierreux d'une capitale, scintillement des étoiles, explosion des lanternes, vous êtes le 
   feu d'artifice de la déesse Liberté!
   
   Les illusions, — me disait mon ami, — sont aussi innombrables peut-être que les rapports 
   des hommes entre eux, ou des hommes avec les choses. Et quand l'illusion disparaît, c'est-à-dire 
   quand nous voyons l'être ou le fait tel qu'il existe en dehors de nous, nous éprouvons un bizarre 
   sentiment, compliqué moitié de regret pour le fantôme disparu, moitié de surprise agréable devant 
   la nouveauté, devant le fait réel.
   
   Il est l'heure de s'enivrer! Pour n'être pas les esclaves martyrisés du Temps, enivrez-vous; 
   enivrez-vous sans cesse! De vin, de poésie ou de vertu, à votre guise.
   
   J'invoque la muse familière, la citadine, la vivante, pour qu'elle m'aide à chanter les bons chiens, 
   les pauvres chiens, les chiens crottés, ceux-là que chacun écarte, comme pestiférés et pouilleux, 
   excepté le pauvre dont ils sont les associés, et le poète qui les regarde d'un œil fraternel.
   
   Connaissez-vous la paresseuse Belgique, et avez-vous admiré comme moi tous ces chiens vigoureux 
   attelés à la charrette du boucher, de la laitière ou du boulanger, et qui témoignent, par leurs 
   aboiements triomphants, du plaisir orgueilleux qu'ils éprouvent à rivaliser avec les chevaux?   
 }
 Le voyage {
 pre(Mais les vrais voyageurs sont ceux-là seuls qui partent
Pour partir, coeurs légers, semblables aux ballons,
De leur fatalité jamais ils ne s'écartent,
Et, sans savoir pourquoi, disent toujours : Allons!)
 }
}


Kundera, Milan {
  L'identité {
    Elle savourait l'absence totale d'aventures. Aventure: façon d'embrasser le monde. Elle ne voulait plus 
    embrasser le monde. Elle ne voulait plus le monde.
    
    L'amitié, ce n'est pas le problème des femmes... c'est le problème des hommes. C'est leur romantisme. Pas le nôtre.
  }
}

Vigny, Alfred de {
  Le journal d'un poète {
    La Gloire. J'ai cru longtemps en elle; mais, réfléchissant que l'auteur de Laocoön est inconnu, j'ai vu sa vanité.
    
    L'homme d'action n'est qu'un penseur manqué.
    
    Il est bon et salutaire de n'avoir aucune espérance.
    
    Les illusions sont le pain de sots. L'homme fort ne les prend que comme des liqueurs fortes lorsqu'il 
    sent le besoin de s'enivrer. Remède contre l'ennui.
    
    Je me laissais dévorer par le vautour intérieur.
    
    Plus je vois, plus je m'aperçois que la seule chose essentielle, pour les hommes, c'est de tuer le temps. 
    Dans cette vie dont nous chantons la brièveté sur tous les tons, notre plus grand ennemi, c'est le temps, 
    dont nous avons toujours trop.
    
    L'homme, créature inachevée, tient encore du singe et du chien.
  }
  Dernière nuit de travail {
    ...Il ne lui faut que deux choses: la vie et la rêverie; le em(pain) et le em(temps).
  }
  Servitudes et grandeurs militaires {
   L'admiration est corrumpue et corruptrice. On doit bien faire pour soi-même, et non pour le bruit.
  }
}


Quintilian {
  Institutio Oratorio {
    It has always, therefore, been my custom not to tie myself down to universal or general rules... For rules are
    rarely of such a kind that their validity cannot be shaken and overthrown in some particular or other.
    
    If therefore we have received no fairer gift from heaven than speech, what shall we regard as so worthy of 
    laborious cultivation, or in what should we sooner desire to excel our fellow-men, than that in which humanity 
    excels all other living things?
    
    Style has three kinds of excellence: correctness, lucidity, and elegance.
    
    But such practices have disappeared into the limbo of absurdities.
    
    Again it frequently happens that the more learned the teacher, the more lucid and intelligible is his instruction.
    For clearness is the first virtue of eloquence... Consequently the worse a teacher is, the harder he will be to 
    understand.
    
    ...the preliminary task of unteaching is harder than that of teaching.
  }
}

Kipling, Rudyard {
  Kim {
    "Since when have the hill-asses owned all Hindustan?" The retort was a swift and brilliant sketch 
    of Kim's pedigree for three generations.
    
    There was nothing in his composition to which drill and routine appealed.
    
    I am ten leagues deep in calamity.
    
    To importune the wise out of season is to invite calamity.
    
    The boat of my soul lacked direction.
  }
}

Rumi {
  Why do you stay in prison, when the door is so wide open?
  
  Open the window in the centre of your chest, and let the spirits fly in and out.
  
  Let the beauty we love be what we do.
  
  Lovers don't finally meet somewhere. They're in each other all along.
  
  Then death comes like dawn, and you wake up laughing at what you thought was your grief.
  
  The soul at dawn is like darkened water that slowly begins to say "Thank you, thank you."
  
  Don't turn your head. Keep looking at the bandaged place. That's where the light enters you.
  
  Whoever is served that cup keeps quiet.
  
  That broken-down lowliness is the reality, not the language! Forget phraseology. 
  I want burning, em(burning)!
  
  People who insult me are only polishing the mirror.
}

Amis, Martin {
  The Information {
    His hair resembled damp ripe hay that had undergone reckless chemical enrichment.
    
    His third novel wasn't published anywhere. Neither was his fourth. Neither was his fifth. 
    In those three brief sentences we adumbrate a Mahabharata of pain.
    
    Now Pluto. One should never mock the afflicted, of course, but Pluto really is an awful little piece of shit.
    
    He looked Richard up and down, and said, as if identifying him by name, "Charisma bypass."
    
    The target is driving along. Without a care in the world, as they say. Although of course no one old enough to drive is 
    without a care in the world. No one old enough to drive a trike is without a care in the world.
    
    It would seem that the universe is thirty billion light-years across and every inch of it would kill us if 
    we went there. This is the position of the universe with regard to human life.
    
    In appearance Frances Ort suggested a rainbow coalition of the chromosomes. She could probably go anywhere in the five 
    boroughs - Harlem, Little Astoria, Chinatown - and provoke no comment other than the usual incitements to immediate and 
    rigorous sexual congress.
  }
  Time's Arrow {
    From my point of view, work is an eight-hour panic attack.
    
    The humans had grown their winter coats, and the high buildings trembled in the tight grip of their stress equations.
    
    I didn't immediately see this: that now human shit is out in the open, we'll get a chance to find out what this stuff can 
    really do.
    
    ... but these days, as Odilo says again and again to all his friends (and the compliment, I think, is pitched 
    decorously high), she bangs like a shithouse door in a gale.
  }
}

Amis, Kingsley {
  Lucky Jim {
    Dixon liked and revered him for his air of detesting everything that presented itself to his senses,
    and of not meaning to let this detestation become staled by custom.

    "I doubt it," he said at last. "Upon consideration, I feel it incumbent upon me to doubt it. I have 
    miscellaneous concerns in London that need my guiding hand."
    
    She went on like this while Dixon looked her in the eyes. His panic mounted in sincerity and volume.
    
    "I've finished with Bertrand." She spoke as if of a household detergent that had proved unsatisfactory.
  }
}

Hemingway, Ernest {
  The Sun Also Rises {
    I've not had this much fun since the war.
  }
}

Brontë, Charlotte {
  Jane Eyre {
    If she were a nice, pretty child, one might compassionate her forlornness; but one really cannot care for such a little toad as 
    that.
    
    I have no relative but the universal mother, Nature: I will seek her breast and ask repose.
  }
  Villette {
    She went through, in that brief interval of her infant life, emotions such as some never feel: it was in her constitution: 
    she would have more of such instants if she lived.
    
    I now signified that it was imperatively necessary my apartment should be relieved of the honour of her presence: 
    she went away laughing.
    
    He laid himself open to my observation, according to my presence in the room just that degree of notice and consequence 
    a person of my exterior habitually expects: that is to say, about what is given to unobtrusive articles of furniture, 
    chairs of ordinary joiner's work, and carpets of no striking pattern.
    
    No mockery in this world ever sounds to me so hollow as that of being told to em(cultivate) happiness. What does 
    such advice mean? Happiness is not a potato, to be planted in mould, and tilled with manure.
    
    ...a young lady in whose skull the organs of reverance and reserve were not largely developed...
  }
}

Dostoyevsky, Fyodor {
  White Knights {
   For, after all, you do grow up, you do outgrow your ideals, which turn to dust and ashes, which are shattered into fragments;
   and if you have no other life, you just have to build one up out of these fragments. And all the time your soul is craving 
   and longing for something else. And in vain does the dreamer rummage about in his old dreams, raking them over as though 
   they were a heap of cinders, looking in these cinders for some spark, however tiny, to fan it into a flame so as to warm 
   his chilled blood by it and revive in it all that he held so dear before, all that touched his heart, that made his blood 
   course through his veins, that drew tears from his eyes, and that so splendidly deceived him!
   
   Good Lord, only a em(moment) of bliss? Isn't such a moment sufficient for the whole of a man's life?
   
  }
  Notes From the Underground {
   I envy such a man with all the forces of my embittered heart.
   
   And all because I was so confoundedly bored, gentlemen, all because I was so 
   horribly bored. Crushed by doing nothing.
   
   Question - who is he? Answer - a loafer. I must say it would have been a real pleasure to have heard that said about 
   myself, for it would have meant that a positive definition had been found for me and that there was something one 
   could say about me. "A loafer!" - why, it's a title, a purpose in life. It's a career, gentlemen, a career!
   
   Let us suppose, gentlemen, that man is not stupid... But if he is not stupid, he is monstrously ungrateful. 
   Phenomenally ungrateful. I'm even inclined to believe that the best definition of man is - a creature who walks on 
   two legs and is ungrateful.
   
   Is it not possible that man loves something besides prosperity? Perhaps he is just as fond of suffering?
   ...Whether it is good or bad, it is sometimes very pleasant to smash things too.
   
   What is an insult but a sort of purification?
  }
}

Crane, Stephen {
  The Red Badge of Courage {
    "I'm commencin' t' feel pretty bad," said the tattered man, suddenly breaking one of his little silences. 
    "I'm commencin' t' feel pretty damn bad".
    
    It appeared that the swift wings of their desires would have shattered against the iron gates of the impossible.
  }
}

Flaubert, Gustave {
  Madame Bovary {
    À la ville, avec le bruit des rues, le bourdonnement des théâtres et les clartés du bal, 
    elles avaient des existences où le cœur se dilate, où les sens s'épanouissent. Mais elle, 
    sa vie était froide comme un grenier dont la lucarne est au nord, et l'ennui, araignée silencieuse, 
    filait sa toile dans l'ombre à tous les coins de son cœur. 
    
    Quel bonheur dans ce temps-là! quelle liberté! quel espoir! quelle abondance d'illusions!
     
    Emma ressemblait à toutes les maîtresses; et le charme de la nouveauté, peu à peu tombant comme un vêtement, 
    laissait voir à nu l'éternelle monotonie de la passion, qui a toujours les mêmes formes et le même langage.     
    
    ...chaque notaire porte en soi les débris d'un poète.
  }
  L'éducation sentimentale {
    Il trouvait que le bonheur mérité par l'excellence de son âme tardait à venir.
    
    ...il accompagnait une femme d'une cinquantaine d'années, laide, magnifiquement vêtue, 
    et d'un rang social problématique.    
    
    Les cœurs des femmes sont comme ces petits meubles à secret, pleins de tiroirs emboîtés les uns dans les 
    autres; on se donne du mal, on se casse les ongles, et on trouve au fond quelque fleur desséchée, des 
    brins de poussière ou le vide!
    
    Après avoir passé successivement par la demi-tasse, le grog, le bischof, le vin chaud et même l'eau rougie, 
    il était revenu à la bière; et, de demi-heure en demi-heure, laissait tomber ce mot : «Bock!», ayant 
    réduit son langage à l'indispensable.
  
    Des années passèrent; et il supportait le désoeuvrement de son intelligence et l'inertie de son coeur.
  }
  Lettre à Guy de Maupassant {
    Je ne sais pas si vous avez du talent. Ce que vous m'avez apporté prouve une certaine intelligence, mais 
    n'oubliez point ceci, jeune homme, que le talent - suivant le mot de Buffon - n'est qu'une longue patience. Travaillez.
  }
  
  Si robuste que l'on soit...on se sent comme broyé par la sottise universelle.
  
  J'ai entrevue quelquefois (dans mes grands jours de soleil)... un état de l'âme ainsi supérieur à la vie, pour qui 
  la gloire ne serait rien, et le bonheur même inutile.
  
  To be stupid, and selfish, and to have good health are the three requirements for happiness; though if stupidity 
  is lacking, the others are useless.
  
  I'm like a piece of wood, which I don't mind in the least. Passion, excitement being what I dread, I think that 
  if happiness is to be found anywhere it's in stagnation.
  
  ...the humiliations that adjectives inflict on me, the cruel ravages of the relative pronoun...
  
  May I die like a dog rather than try to rush through even one sentence before it is perfectly ripe.
  
  ...I had written myself into a state, and it was immensely enjoyable... a state of the soul so far above 
  ordinary life, a state in which fame counts for nothing, and even happiness is irrelevant.
  
  I have been attacked by the government, by the priests and by the newspapers. My triumph is complete.
  
  Do not put your portrait at the beginning of your book. Leave that little trick to the scribblers. The 
  artist em(ought not to exist).
  
  Pensées {
    L'artiste doit être dans son oeuvre comme Dieu dans la création, invisible et tout-puissant, qu'on le sente 
    partout, mais qu'on ne le voie pas.
    
    Le succès est une conséquence et ne doit pas être un but.
    
    S'écarter des journaux! la haine de ces boutiques-là est le commencement de l'amour du Beau.
    
    Tout est là: l'amour de l'Art.
    
    Il ne faut pas demander des oranges aux pommiers, du soleil à la France, de l'amour à la femme, du 
    bonheur à la vie.
    
    Le bonheur est une monstruosité! punis sont ceux qui le cherchent.
    
    La médiocrité chérit la regle, moi je la hais...
    
    La rage de vouloir conclure est une des manies les plus funestes et les plus stériles qui appartiennent 
    à l'humanité. Chaque religion et chaque philosophie a prétendu avoir Dieu à elle, toiser l'infini et 
    connaître la recette du bonheur. Quel orgueil et quel néant! Je vois, au contraire, que les plus grands
    génies et les plus grandes œuvres n'ont jamais conclu. Homère, Shakespeare, Goethe, tous les fils aînés 
    de Dieu (comme dit Michelet) se sont bien gardés de faire autre chose que représenter. 

    Il n'y a pour moi dans le monde que les beaux vers, les phrases bien tournées, harmonieuses, chantantes, 
    les beaux couchers de soleil, les clairs de lune, les tableaux colorés, les marbres antiques et les têtes 
    accentuées. Au delà, rien.    
    
    La masse, le nombre est toujours idiot. Je n'ai pas beaucoup de convictions, mais j'ai celle-là fortement.
    
    Le mépris de la gloriole et du gain est la première marche pour atteindre le Beau...
  }
}

Wall, Geoffrey {
  Flaubert: A Life {
    Flaubert's friends were often obliged to stretch their sense of the comic beyond its comfortable limits.
  }
}

France, Anatole {
  Le crime de Sylvestre Bonnard {
    Qui vit peu change peu...
    
    Nous sommes d'éternels enfants et nous courons sans cesse après des jouets nouveaux.
    
    pre(Amis, mangeons et buvons joyeusement 
Tant qu'il y a de l'huile dans la lampe: 
Qui sait si dans l'autre monde nous nous reverrons?
Qui sait si dans l'autre monde il y a une taverne?)

   Mais Thérèse est sourde comme un sac de charbon et lente comme la justice.
   
   Nos passions, c'est nous.
  }
}

Coupland, Douglas {
   Miss Wyoming {
    ...when you grow up these days, you're told you're going to have four or five different careers during 
    your lifetime. But what they don't tell you is that you're also going to be four or five different people along the way.
  }
}

Stendhal {
  Le rouge et le noir {
    Le maire de Verrières devait une réputation d'esprit et surtout de bon ton à une demi-douzaine de plaisanteries 
    dont il avait hérité d'un oncle.
    
    Son éducation fut faite par la douleur.
    
    Cette demoiselle, grande Franc-Comtoise, fort bien faite, et mise comme il le faut pour faire valoir un café...
    
    Le bonheur, pour ces seminaristes comme pour les héros des romans de Voltaire, consiste surtout à bien dîner.
  }
}

Sterne, Laurence {
  Le tombeau d'un ami.
  
  A Sentimental Journey {  
    Now where would be the harm, said I to myself, if I was to beg of this distressed lady to accept of 
    half of my chaise? and what mighty mischief could ensue?
    
    ...there thou mayest solace thy soul in converse sweet...
    
    Hail ye sweet courtesies of life, for smooth do ye make the road of it!
    
    Tis going, I own, like the Knight of the Woeful Countenance, in quest of melancholy adventures.
    
    The old officer was reading attentively a small pamphlet, it might be the book of the opera, with a large pair of spectacles.
    As soon as I sat down, he took his spectacles off, and putting them into a shagreen case, return'd them and the book
    into his pocket altogether. I half rose up, and made him a bow. Translate this into any civilized language in the world, 
    the sense is this: "Here's a poor stranger come in to the box; he seems as if he knew no body; and is never likely, was 
    he to be seven years in Paris, if every man he comes near keeps his spectacles upon his nose - 'tis shutting the door 
    of conversation absolutely, in his face - and using him worse than a German."
  }
}

Findlay, Timothy {
  ...Shem did nothing but eat and work and sleep. He thought of nothing else but these three things and was 
  devoid of wonder.
}

Dumas, Alexandre {
  Les trois mousquetaires {
    Allons nous faire tuer où l'on nous dit d'aller. La vie vaut-elle la peine de faire autant de questions?
  }
}

Proust, Marcel {
  Du côté du chez Swann{
    Quand d'un passé ancien rien ne subsiste, après la mort des êtres, après la destruction des choses seules, 
    plus frêles mais plus vivaces, plus immatérielles, plus persistantes, plus fidèles, l'odeur et la saveur 
    restent encore longtemps, comme des âmes, à se rappeler, à attendre, à espérer, sur la ruine de tout le reste, 
    à porter sans fléchir, sur leur gouttelette presque impalpable, l'édifice immense du souvenir. 
    
    Quand, plus tard, j'ai eu l'occasion de rencontrer, au cours de ma vie, dans des couvents par exemple, des 
    incarnations vraiment saintes de la charité active, elles avaient généralement un air allègre, positif, 
    indifférent et brusque de chirurgien pressé, ce visage où ne se lit aucune commisération, aucun attendrissement 
    devant la souffrance humaine, aucune crainte de la heurter, et qui est le visage sans douceur, le visage 
    antipathique et sublime de la vraie bonté.
     
    Je vis si résolument en dehors des contingences physiques que mes sens ne prennent pas la peine de me les notifier.
    
    Un petit coup au carreau, comme si quelque chose l'avait heurté, suivi d'une ample chute légère comme de 
    grains de sable qu'on eût laissé tomber d'une fenêtre au-dessus, puis la chute s'étendant, se réglant, 
    adoptant un rythme, devenant fluide, sonore, musicale, innombrable, universelle: c'était la pluie.
    
    Il se taisait, il regardait mourir leur amour.
    
    Chose étrange que ces mots «deux ou trois fois», rien que des mots, des mots prononcés dans l'air, à distance, 
    puissent ainsi déchirer le cœur comme s'ils le touchaient véritablement, puissent rendre malade, comme un 
    poison qu'on absorberait.
    
    Car l'un ne voulait pas d'un sucre d'orge rouge parce qu'il préférait le violet et l'autre, les larmes aux 
    yeux, refusait une prune que voulait lui acheter sa bonne, parce que, finit-il par dire d'une voix 
    passionnée: «J'aime mieux, l'autre prune, parce qu'elle a un ver!» 
    
    Dire que j'ai gâché des années de ma vie, que j'ai voulu mourir, que j'ai eu mon plus grand amour, 
    pour une femme qui ne me plaisait pas, qui n'était pas mon genre!
  }
  Swann's Way {
    The fault I find with our journalism is that it forces us to take an interest in some fresh triviality or other 
    every day, whereas only three of four books in a lifetime give us anything that is of real importance.
    
    ...as will exert a benign influence on the mind by giving it a hankering for impossible journeys through the realms of time.
    
    Sir, I am absolutely incapable of telling you whether it has rained. 
    I live so resolutely apart from physical contingencies that my senses no longer trouble to inform me of them.
    
    An hour or so later he received a note from Odette, and at once recognized that large handwriting in which an affectation of 
    British stiffness imposed an apparent discipline upon ill-formed characters, suggestive, perhaps, to 
    less biased eyes than his, of an untidiness of mind, a fragmentary education, or a want of sincerity and will-power.
    
    He could not explore the idea further, for a sudden access of that mental lethargy which was, with him, 
    congenital, intermittent and providential, happened at that moment to extinguish every particle of light 
    in his brain.

    With the result that he came to regret every pleasure that he tasted in her company, every new caress of which 
    he had been so imprudent as to point out to her the delights, every fresh charm that he found in her, for he 
    knew that, a moment later, they would go to enrich the collection of instruments in his torture chamber.
    
    Let's hope she'll refuse. Good God! Think of listening to Wagner for a whole fortnight with a woman who takes 
    about as much interest in music as a tone-deaf newt - that would be fun!
    
    Verdurin! What a name! Oh, it must be said that they're perfect specimens of their disgusting kind! 
    Thank God, it was high time that I stopped condescending to promiscuous intercourse with such infamy, such dung.
    
    But the harshness of his steely gaze was compensated by the softness of his cotton gloves, so that, as he approached 
    Swann, he seemed to be exhibiting at once an utter contempt for his person and the most tender regard for his hat.
    
    Swann speedily recovered his sense of the general ugliness of the human male when, on the other side of the tapestry curtain,
    the spectacle of the servants gave place to that of the guests.
    
    ...this woman whose reputation for beauty, misconduct and elegance was universal.
  }
  À l'ombre des jeunes filles en fleurs {
    On peut tout faire aux hommes qui vous aiment, ils sont idiots.
    
    Il me fallut l'accompagner dans un petit pavillon treillissé de vert, assez semblable aux bureaux 
    d'octroi désaffectés du vieux Paris, et dans lequel étaient depuis peu installés ce qu'on appelle en 
    Angleterre un lavabo, et en France, par une anglomanie mal informée, des water-closets.
     
    Quoi, vous croyez qu'elle a un derrière blue ciel comme les singes?
     
    Et je me lassai d'attendre, bien que quelques habituées fort humbles, soi-disant ouvrières, mais toujours 
    sans travail, fussent venues me faire de la tisane et tenir avec moi une longue conversation à 
    laquelle — malgré le sérieux des sujets traités — la nudité partielle ou complète de mes interlocutrices 
    donnait une savoureuse simplicité.
    
    La constante vision de ce bonheur imaginaire m'aidait à supporter la destruction du bonheur réel.
    
    Quand on aime, l'amour est trop grand pour pouvoir être contenu tout entier en nous; 
    il irradie vers la personne aimée, rencontre en elle une surface qui l'arrête, le force à revenir 
    vers son point de départ; et c'est ce choc en retour de notre propre tendresse que nous appelons 
    les sentiments de l'autre et qui nous charme plus qu'à l'aller, parce que nous ne connaissons pas 
    qu'elle vient de nous.  

    ...la permanence et la durée ne sont promises à rien, pas même à la douleur.    
    
    J'appliquais à son visage rendu indécis par le crépuscule le masque de mes rêves les plus passionnés, 
    mais lisais dans son regard tourné vers moi l'horreur de mon néant.
    
    Mais il ne me répondit pas, soit étonnement de mes paroles, attention à son travail, souci de l'étiquette, 
    dureté de son ouïe, respect du lieu, crainte du danger, paresse d'intelligence ou consigne du directeur.
    
    Et dès ce premier matin le soleil me désignait au loin, d'un doigt souriant, ces cimes bleues de la mer 
    qui n'ont de nom sur aucune carte géographique, jusqu'à ce qu'étourdi de sa sublime promenade à la surface 
    retentissante et chaotique de leurs crêtes et de leurs avalanches, il vînt se mettre à l'abri du vent dans 
    ma chambre, se prélassant sur le lit défait et égrenant ses richesses sur le lavabo mouillé, dans la malle 
    ouverte, où par sa splendeur même et son luxe déplacé, il ajoutait encore à l'impression du désordre. 
  
    Mais avant tout j'avais ouvert mes rideaux dans l'impatience de savoir qu'elle était la Mer qui jouait 
    ce matin-là au bord du rivage, comme une Néréïde. Car chacune de ces Mers ne restait jamais plus qu'un jour. 
    Le lendemain il y en avait une autre qui parfois lui ressemblait. Mais je ne vis jamais deux fois la même.
    
    Comment s'appelle-t-il, cet ostrogoth-là, me demandait Albertine...
    
    Elle était de ces femmes à qui c'est un si grand plaisir de serrer la main qu'on est reconnaissant à la
    civilisation d'avoir fait du shake-hand un acte permis entre jeunes gens et jeunes filles qui s'abordent. 
  }
  Le côté de Guermantes {
    Nous sentons dans un monde, nous pensons, nous nommons dans un autre, nous pouvons entre les deux
    établir une concordance mais non combler l'intervalle.
    
    Et comme l'habitude est, de toutes les plantes humaines, celle qui a le moins besoin de sol nourricier pour vivre et 
    qui apparaît la première sur le roc en apparence le plus désolé...
    
    La vérité est que je n'appartiens guère à cette Terre où je me sens si exilé; il faut toute la force 
    de la loi de gravitation pour m'y maintenir et que je ne m'évade pas dans une autre sphère.
    
    Ce n'était pas «Rachel quand du Seigneur» qui me semblait peu de chose, c'était la puissance de l'imagination 
    humaine, l'illusion sur laquelle reposaient les douleurs de l'amour, que je trouvais grandes.
    
    L'amour? Je le fais souvent mais je n'en parle jamais.
    
    ...après avoir poussé un léger soupir, elle se contenta de manifester de la nullité de l'impression que lui 
    produisaient la vue de l'historien et la mienne en exécutant certains mouvements des ailes du nez avec une 
    précision qui attestait l'inertie absolue de son attention désoeuvrée.
    
    Au pied du lit, convulsée par tous les souffles de cette agonie, ne pleurant pas mais par moments 
    trempée de larmes, ma mère avait la désolation sans pensée d'un feuillage que cingle la pluie et 
    retourne le vent.
    
    C'est la terrible tromperie de l'amour qu'il commence par nous faire jouer avec une femme non du
    monde extérieur, mais avec une poupée intérieure à notre cerveau...
    
    Les Courvoisier se faisaient de l'intelligence une idée moins favorable et, pour peu qu'on ne fût pas 
    de leur monde, être intelligent n'était pas loin de signifier «avoir probablement assassiné père et mère».
    
    ...il est bien rare qu'un d'entre nous ait le toupet de son originalité et ne mette pas son application 
    à ressembler aux modèles les plus vantés.
  }
  The Guermantes Way {
    ...I was not really there; my mind stayed behind somewhere else and sent mere Habit to take its place.
    
    Interesting place, Morocco. I could tell you a lot about it. Some very decent fellows out there. 
    Mental equals and all that.
    
    And, indeed, I ought to have guessed this from her way of smiling, for I had already observed this sort of behavior when I saw the 
    Princess of Luxembourg buying rye-bread rolls on the beach in Balbec to give to my grandmother, as thought to a deer at the zoo.
    
    The Courvoisiers had a less exalted notion of intelligence, and unless one belonged to their world, being intelligent came close to meaning
    "having probably murdered one's parents".
  }
  Sodome et Gomorrhe {
     Blottie toute seule derrière elle, une pauvre petite étoile allait servir d'unique compagne à la lune 
     solitaire, tandis que celle-ci, tout en protégeant son amie, mais plus hardie et allant de l'avant, 
     brandirait comme une arme irrésistible, comme un symbole oriental, son ample et merveilleux croissant d'or.
     
    Il est mort! Mais non, on exagère, on exagère!
     
    Vous êtes plutôt bizarroïde dans vos renseignements, mon cher! 
    
    Car l'instinct d'imitation et l'absence de courage gouvernent les sociétés comme les foules.
    
    Il voyait le peu qu'on pouvait attendre des affections humaines, il s'y était résigné.
    
    Cependant l'aviateur sembla hésiter sur sa voie; je sentais ouvertes devant lui — devant moi, si 
    l'habitude ne m'avait pas fait prisonnier — toutes les routes de l'espace, de la vie...
    
    Sans doute parlait-il ainsi par mécontentement de ne pas être invité, et aussi à cause de la satisfaction 
    qu'ont les hommes «occupés» — fût-ce par le travail le plus sot — de «ne pas avoir le temps» de faire 
    ce que vous faites.
  }
  La prisonnière {
    ...comme on fait du téléphone, instrument surnaturel devant les miracles duquel on s'émerveillait jadis, et 
    dont on se sert maintenant sans même y penser, pour faire venir son tailleur ou commander une glace.
    
    Qu'y a-t-il de plus poétique que Xerxès, fils de Darius, faisant fouetter de verges la mer qui avait englouti ses vaisseaux?
    
    Quand elle dormait, je n'avais plus à parler, je savais que je n'étais plus regardé par elle, je n'avais plus 
    besoin de vivre à la surface de moi-même.
    
    Tantôt, par des jours irrémédiablement mauvais, disait-on, rien que la résidence dans la maison, 
    située au milieu d'une pluie égale et continue, avait la glissante douceur, le silence calmant, 
    l'intérêt d'une navigation; une autre fois, par un jour clair, en restant immobile dans mon lit, 
    c'était laisser tourner les ombres autour de moi comme d'un tronc d'arbre.
    
    ...pour aviser au plus vite, j'essayai de téléphoner à Andrée; 
    je me saisis du récepteur, j'invoquai les divinités implacables, mais ne fis qu'exciter leur fureur 
    qui se traduisit par ces mots: «Pas libre.»
    
    J'appelle ici amour une torture réciproque.
    
    ...une montagne de néant...
    
    La curiosité amoureuse est comme celle qu'excitent en nous les noms de pays; toujours déçue, elle 
    renaît et reste toujours insatiable.
    
    C'est terrible d'avoir la vie d'une autre personne attachée a la sienne comme une bombe qu'on 
    tiendrait sans qu'on puisse la lâcher sans crime.
    
    Le seul véritable voyage, le seul bain de Jouvence, ce ne serait pas d'aller vers de nouveaux paysages, 
    mais d'avoir d'autres yeux, de voir l'univers avec les yeux d'un autre, de cent autres, de voir les 
    cent univers que chacun d'eux voit, que chacun d'eux est; et cela, nous le pouvons avec un Elstir, 
    avec un Vinteuil; avec leurs pareils, nous volons vraiment d'étoiles en étoiles.
    
    ...l'Ange écarlate du matin...    
    
    Quand je vous mens, c'est toujours par amitié pour vous.
  }
  Albertine disparue {
    Laisson les jolies femmes aux hommes sans imagination.
    
    Jamais je ne retrouverais cette chose divine: un être avec qui je pusse causer de tout, à qui je pusse me confier.

    Nous voyons, nous entendons, nous concevons le monde tout de travers.... Cette perpétuelle erreur, 
    qui est précisément la «vie», ne donne pas ses mille formes seulement à l'univers visible et à l'univers audible, 
    mais à l'univers social, à l'univers sentimental, à l'univers historique, etc.
    
    ...des principes égalitaires de 1789 elle ne réclamait qu'un droit du citoyen, celui de ne pas prononcer 
    comme nous et de maintenir qu'hôtel, été et air étaient du genre féminin...
    
    Notre amour de la vie n'est qu'une vieille liaison dont nous ne savons pas nous débarrasser. 
    Sa force est dans sa permanence. Mais la mort qui la rompt nous guérira du désir de l'immortalité.
    
    Car il y a dans ce monde où tout s'use, où tout périt, une chose qui tombe en ruines, qui se détruit 
    encore plus complètement, en laissant encore moins de vestiges que la Beauté: c'est le Chagrin.
  }
  Le temps retrouvé {
    ...un être est tant d'êtres différents selons les personnes qui le jugent, en dehors même des différences de jugement.
    
    Ainsi tourne la Roue du Monde.
    
    ...la mort de millions d'inconnus nous chatouille à peine et presque moins désagréablement qu'un courant d'air. 
    Mme Verdurin, souffrant pour ses migraines de ne plus avoir de croissant à tremper dans son café au lait, avait 
    obtenu de Cottard une ordonnance qui lui permettait de s'en faire faire dans certain restaurant dont nous avons parlé. 
    Cela avait été presque aussi difficile à obtenir des pouvoirs publics que la nomination d'un général. Elle reprit 
    son premier croissant le matin où les journaux narraient le naufrage du Lusitania. Tout en trempant le croissant 
    dans le café au lait et donnant des pichenettes à son journal pour qu'il pût se tenir grand ouvert sans qu'elle 
    eût besoin de détourner son autre main des trempettes, elle disait : «Quelle horreur! Cela dépasse en horreur 
    les plus affreuses tragédies.» Mais la mort de tous ces noyés ne devait lui apparaître que réduite au milliardième, 
    car tout en faisant, la bouche pleine, ces réflexions désolées, l'air qui surnageait sur sa figure, amené probablement 
    là par la saveur du croissant, si précieux contre la migraine, était plutôt celui d'une douce satisfaction.
    
    Il y avait certes, maintenant comme alors, la splendeur antique inchangée d'une lune cruellement, mystérieusement sereine, 
    qui versait aux monuments encore intacts l'inutile beauté de sa lumière...
    
    Mais comme chaque fois que je me trouvais arraché à mes habitudes, sorti à une autre heure, dans un lieu nouveau, 
    j'éprouvais un vif plaisir.
    
    J'avais trop experimenté l'impossibilité d'atteindre dans la réalité ce qui était au fond de moi-même.
    
    ...le sens artistique, c'est-à-dire la soumission à la réalité intériere...
    
    Le devoir et la tache d'un écrivain sont ceux d'un traducteur.
    
    Ça me faisait toujours penser au vers de Victor Hugo: «Emporte le bonheur et laisse-moi l'ennui.» 
    
    Car je comprenais que mourir n'était pas quelque chose de nouveau, 
    mais qu'au contraire depuis mon enfance j'étais déjà mort bien des fois.
    
    Là où je cherchais les grandes lois, on m'appelait fouilleur de détails. 
    
    Depuis le jour de l'escalier, rien du monde, aucun bonheur, qu'il vînt de l'amitié des gens, 
    des progrès de mon œuvre, de l'espérance de la gloire, ne parvenait plus à moi que comme un 
    si pâle soleil qu'il n'avait plus la vertu de me réchauffer, de me faire vivre, de me donner 
    un désir quelconque, et encore était-il trop brillant, si blême qu'il fût, pour mes yeux qui 
    préféraient se fermer, et je me retournais du côté du mur. 
  }
}

Garnier, François {
  L'âne à la lyre {
    On a pu constater que la reprise des erreurs était si fréquente que le phenomène de répétition 
    crée une forme apparente de vérité, pernicieuse et tenace.
  }
}

Alexander, Christopher {
  The Timeless Way of Building {
    Here there is no mastery of unnameable creative processes: only the patience of a craftsman, 
    chipping away slowly; the mastery of what is made does not lie in the depths of some impenetrable ego; 
    it lies, instead, in the simple mastery of the steps in the process, and in the definition of these steps. 
    
    The simple process by which people generate a living building, simply by walking it out, waving their arms, 
    thinking together, placing stakes in the ground, will always touch them deeply.
  }
  The Nature of Order, Book 2 {
    Living structure in buildings can only be em(generated). It cannot be created by brute force from designs... the 
    building - its conception, plan design, detailed layout, structural design, and material detail are all 
    unfolded, step by step in time.
    
    Insofar as unfolded buildings are lovable, what we love about them is not their age but the rightness which we 
    experience in them. This rightness got into them em(as a result of a step-by-step unfolding process). We can 
    see and feel the rightness. And we see it and feel it because it has a different geometric character from the character 
    which is created by "design".
    
    The step-by-step approach works. The all-or-nothing does not work. This is the secret of biological evolution... It 
    would be impossible for nature to "design" a system as complex as an organism all at once.
    
    As any designer will tell you, it is the first steps in a design process which count for most.
    The first few strokes, which create the form, carry within them the destiny of the rest.
    
    It is essential to form this vision of the emerging building em(in your mind's eye), not in sketches on paper.
    Words and interior visions, when seen with your eyes closed, are more labile, more fluid, transformable, and 
    three-dimensional, than sketches or physical designs.
    
    ...to prune a design, and look at it over and over again, searching for any little parts that are not centers - and 
    then work at it, compressing, cutting, simplifying, re-arranging, until every single part, and every part of 
    every part, and every part between the parts are all centers. This is tremendously hard work.
    
    The single most important thing that happens during the process of making anything, is the ever watchful task of getting
    the next bit of sequence right and modifying it as we go along. Paying attention to what has to be done next,
    and getting this right, is as important as what one actually does. The more one understands the idea of unfolding, 
    and the more one understands the key role which sequence plays in the unfolding process, the more it becomes clear 
    that the process of design and the process of construction are inseparable.
    
    We aim, by the end, to remove all extraneous structure. What we want is to cut and cut and cut until there is 
    almost nothing left.
    
    Simplicity is the state in which all structure is removed, except exactly that structure which is required.
    
    You know the em(feeling) which the thing will have. But you do em(not) know the em(form).
    In fact, you keep having to change the form, because as the work unfolds, you find out many, many details which have 
    the wrong feeling, which do not function, in response to the whole, as you thought they would. Because you 
    keep the em(feeling) constant, you em(have) to change the form.
    
    It is em(feeling), above all, which has the greatest chance of dealing with the whole in a balanced way, because it is 
    precisely the nature of feeling that it does embrace the whole - while intellectual ideas more often concentrate on parts and 
    end up getting them out of proportion.
    
    Most present-day architects like em(talking) about construction, but are afraid of construction tools, and have little
    feeling for them. In many cases, getting their hands dirty scares them.
    
    The gradual rubbing together of phenomena to get the right result, the slow process of getting things right, is 
    almost unknown to us today.
  }
  The Nature of Order, Book 1 {
    In the 20th century we have passed through a unique period, one in which architecture as a discipline has been in a 
    state that is almost unimaginably bad. Sometimes I think of it as a mass psychosis of unprecedented dimension, 
    in which the people of earth - in large numbers and in almost all contemporary societies - have created a 
    form of architecture which is against life, insane, image-ridden, hollow.
    
    For twenty years, I spent two or three hours a day looking at pairs of things... comparing them, and 
    asking myself: em(Which has more life?)
    
    What I am proposing is that these observations of an observer's inner state are not merely a reflection of a person's
    attitude or psychology, but can actually be used to measure something real about the external world em(itself).
    
    Can it really be true that something as elusive as freedom - and perhaps even the deeper capacity to be human - depends in some 
    way on the environment?
  }
  The Nature of Order, Book 3 {
    In our century the loss of control and loss of belonging started with the car.
    
    ...making even tiny changes too casually can be damaging.
    
    What an extreme comment on the state of the world: that people should weep, merely because they are allowed 
    to sketch on paper the apartment layout that they wanted for their family.
    
    Go into your mind's eye pretending to walk through the building, as if it existed already, but you are 
    seeing it for the first time, and are stunned by its beauty. Your are genuinely surprised.
    You find yourself stunned by the beauty of the rooms. And you ask yourself, then, which features of what I 
    am seeing, are making it so beautiful?
    
    What will generate tranquility? The essence of it is pretty simple, but requires much concentration.
    Stand in the place. Ask yourself what you should put there - a certain stone on the mantel, a color on a piece of wall, 
    the shape of an opening. For any of these, you ask, does it generate greater tranquility in me? 
    If it does, keep it. If it does not, reject it. Keep on doing that, for everything around you.
    And then, get rid of everything else.
  }
  The Nature of Order, Book 4 {
    ...the underlying design vocabulary of the 20th century, almost throughout the century, asserted that 
    designers should create structures that are "interesting", "pleasing", "fantastic", "exhilarating", "with elan", and
    so on - anything but em(beautiful). em(That) word has unalterable meaning, cannot be contaminated, and during 
    the temporary insanity of the 20th century, struck a nerve which people could not tolerate.
    
    What is the reason for this "food-like" character of the making process?
    Why should it matter so much, whether a person makes something beautiful or not?
    Why should it have such a profound effect on the maker?
    
    In order to create living structure, we must please ourselves....And you need em(only) please yourself.
    But you must please yourself em(truly).
    
    It is very, very hard to make a beautiful building.
    
    I try to shape the volume such that its volume brings tears to my throat...This sadness of tears, when I 
    reach it, is also joy.
  }
}

Villiers de L'Isle-Adam, A. de {
  Deux augures {
    Le public ne lit pas un journal pour penser ou réfléchir, que diable! On lit comme on mange.
    
    Je ne veux, derrière moi, que le néant.
  }
  L'affichage céleste {
    Ne serait-ce pas de quoi étonner la Grande Ourse elle-même si, soudainement, surgissait entre ses pattes sublimes, cette 
    annonce inquietante: "Faut-il des corsets, oui ou non?"
  }
  La convive des dernières fêtes {
    Lorsque Stendhal voulait écrire une histoire d'amour un peu sentimentale, il avait coutume, on le sait, 
    de relire d'abord une demi-douzaine de pages du Code pénal pour, - disait-il, - se donner le ton.
  }
  Le désir d'être un homme {
    ...le vieil abîme des cieux...
  }
  L'intersigne {
    Pour conclure, me dit Maucombe en se levant, nous sommes ici pour témoigner, — par nos oeuvres, nos pensées, 
    nos paroles et notre lutte contre la Nature, — pour témoigner si em(nous pesons le poids).
    Et il termina par une citation de Joseph de Maistre: «Entre l'Homme et Dieu, il n'y a que l'Orgueil.»
  }
}

Richler, Mordecai {
  Barney's Version {
    John Hughes-McNoughton, born into Westmount affluence, misplaced his moral compass years ago.
  }
}

Gibbon, Edward {
  Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire {
    His manners were less pure, but his character was equally amiable with that of his father. 
    Twenty-two acknowledged concubines, and a library of sixty-two thousand volumes, attested the 
    variety of his inclinations; and from the productions which he left behind him, it appears that 
    the former as well as the latter were designed for use rather than for ostentation.
    
    Of the various forms of government which have prevailed in the world, an hereditary monarchy seems to present 
    the fairest scope for ridicule.
    
    Carus, taking off a cap which he wore to conceal his baldness, assured the ambassadors that, unless their master 
    acknowledged the superiority of Rome, he would speedily render Persia as naked of trees as his own head was 
    destitute of hair.
    
    Confiscation, exile, or simple death, were esteemed uncommon instances of his lenity.
    
    The peace of the Eastern church was invaded by a swarm of fanatics, incapable of fear, or reason, or humanity; and 
    the Imperial troops acknowledged, without shame, that they were much less apprehensive of an encounter with the 
    fiercest barbarians.
    
    ...the severity of the [Church] fathers, who despised all knowledge that was not useful to salvation, and who 
    considered all levity of discourse as a criminal abuse of the gift of speech.
    
    But it is always easy, as well as agreeable, for the inferior ranks of mankind to claim a merit from the contempt of that 
    pomp and pleasure which fortune has placed beyond their reach.
  }
}

Duteurtre, Benoît {
  Le voyage en France {
    Pour l'heure, je devais reprendre le train, continuer à pédaler sur les quais du port, rêver du New York
    au bord de la mer, fumer des cigarettes au bistrot en parlant d'amour et d'anarchie.
  }
}

O'Brien, Edna {
  James Joyce {
    Il avait sur lui un pantalon de poupée miniature qu'il enfilait sur deux doigts et faisait danser comme 
    une marionnette sur le comptoir du café, à la grande joie d'une clientèle hétéroclite.
  }
}

Shaw, George Bernard {
  I should prefer to die in a reasonably dry ditch under the stars.
  
  The Theatre of the Future {
    The manager of the C.F.A. Theatre regrets to have to announce that his attempt to procure a new play 
    introducing a married woman in love with her own husband, and without a past, has been wholly unsuccessful.
    An appeal to our leading dramatic authors to write such a play has elicited a unanimous refusal to 
    compromise their professional reputation by dealing with an abnormal situation and catering for morbid tastes.  
  }
  The Apple Cart {
    I had rather be a dog than the Prime Minister of a country where the only thing the inhabitants can be serious 
    about are football and refreshments.
  }
  London Music {
    All artsmen know what it is to be enthusiastically praised for something so easy that they are half ashamed 
    of it, and to receive not a word of encouragement for their finest strokes.
  }
  The Doctor's Dilemma {
    No man who is occupied in doing a very difficult thing, and doing it very well, ever loses his self-respect.
  }
  The Man of Destiny {
   The truth is the one thing nobody will believe.
  }
  Misalliance {
    The secret of being miserable is to have leisure to bother about whether you are happy or not. 
    The cure for it is occupation, because occupation means preoccupation; and the preoccupied person is neither happy nor 
    unhappy, but simply alive and active, which is pleasanter than any happiness, until you are tired of it.
    
    A perpetual holiday is a good working definition of hell.
  }
  Man and Superman {
    Hell, in short, is a place where you have nothing to do but amuse yourself.
  }
  Three Plays by Brieux {
    I wanted to get at the facts. I was prepared for the facts being unflattering: had I not 
    already faced the fact that instead of being a fallen angel I was first cousin to a monkey?
  }
  Caesar and Cleopatra {
    Their chief is called Julius Caesar. His father was a tiger and his mother was a burning mountain.
  }
}

Baricco, Alessandro {
  Océan Mer {
    Elle n'a pas de murs, Tombouctou, parce que là-bas ils pensent, depuis toujours, que sa beauté suffirait, à elle seule,
    pour arrêter n'importe quel ennemi.
    
    pre(Plage. Et mer.
Lumière.
Le vent du nord.
Le silence des marées.
Des jours. Des nuits.
Une liturgie. Immobile, si on regarde bien. em(Immobile.))
  }
}

Fromentin, Eugène {
  Dominique {
    Toute la question est là: trouver ce qui convient à sa nature et ne copier le bonheur de personne.
  }
}

Maurois, André {
  Climats {
    Les hommes livrent leur âme, comme les femme leur corps, par zones successives et bien défendues.
  }
}

Morressy, John {
  A Tale of Three Wizards {
    The Harkeners were peaceful folk who devoted their lives to listening for instructive and consolatory 
    voices from another plane. Since no one could be certain where such voices might best be heard, Harkeners 
    listened to everything: old boots, haystacks, boulders, trees, bowls of oatmeal, and anything else at 
    hand... Belsheer thought that over, and his expression brightened. "It would be nice to spend a few weeks 
    sitting in the sun, listening to a loaf of bread."
  }
}

Muske, Carol {
  So pour some coffee, go outside, feel something enormous, stop.
}

Tate, James {
  Even the abandoned husk of a person can sometimes perform useful tasks and enjoy mildly good times...
}

Austen, Jane {
  Pride and Prejudice {
    ...but his friend Mr. Darcy soon drew the attention of the room by his fine, tall person, handsome features, 
    noble mien, and the report which was in general circulation within five minutes after his entrance, 
    of his having ten thousand a year. 
    
    Have you anything else to propose for my domestic felicity?
    
    I have not the pleasure of understanding you... Of what are you talking?
    
    I never saw a more promising inclination. He was growing quite inattentive to other people, 
    and wholly engrossed by her. Every time they met, it was more decided and remarkable.
    At his own ball he offended two or three young ladies by not asking them to dance, 
    and I spoke to him twice myself, without receiving an answer. Could there be finer symptoms? 
    Is not general incivility the very essence of love?
    
    And now nothing remains for me but to assure you in the most animated language of the violence of my affection.
    
    The Gardiners staid only one night at Longbourn, and set off the next morning with Elizabeth in 
    pursuit of novelty and amusement.
  }
  Sense and Sensibility {
    "Is there a felicity in the world," said Marianne, "superior to this?"
    
    ...and they sympathised with each other in an insipid propriety of demeanour, and a general want of understanding.
    
    Elinor agreed to it all, for she did not think he deserved the compliment of rational opposition.
  }
  Northanger Abbey {
    ...and from habitude very little incommoded by the remarks and ejaculations of Mrs. Allen, whose vacancy of mind, 
    and incapacity for thinking, were such that, as she never talked a great deal, so she could never be entirely silent.
    
    ...it did not appear to her that life could supply any greater felicity.
    
    It was not within the power of his gallantry to detain her longer.
    
    And why had she been so partial to that grove? Was it from dejection of spirits?
  }
  Persuasion {
    ...and though not the very happiest being in the world herself, had found enough in her duties, 
    her friends, and her children, to attach her to life, and make it no matter of indifference to her when she was called on 
    to quit them.
  
    A short period of exquisite felicity followed, and but a short one.
    
    She had some feelings she was ashamed to investigate. They were too much like joy, senseless joy!
    
    Yes, here I am, Sophia, quite ready to make a foolish match. Anybody between fifteen and thirty may have 
    me for asking. A little beauty, a few smiles, and a few compliments to the navy, and I am a lost man.
  }
  
  Mansfield Park {
    ...nor could he refrain from often saying to himself, in Mr. Rushworth's company, "If this man had not 
    twelve thousand a year, he would be a very stupid fellow."
    
    "Certainly, my home at my uncle's brought me acquainted with a circle of admirals.
    Of em(Rears), and em(Vices), I saw enough. Now, do not be suspecting me of a pun, I entreat." 
    Edmund again felt grave, and only replied, "It is a noble profession."
  }
}

Roth, Philip {
  Portnoy's Complaint {
    And then, of course, my father is a man who has a certain amount of worrying to do each day, and sometimes he 
    just has to forgo listening to the conversations going on around him in order to fulfill his anxiety requirement.
    
    "The Pumpkin", is what I called her, in commemoration of her pigmentation and the size of her can.
  }
}

Bacon, Francis {
  Novum Organum {
    Truth emerges more readily from error than from confusion.
  }
}
Kuhn, Thomas S. {
  The Structure of Scientific Revolutions {
    To be accepted as a paradigm, a thing must seem better than its competitors, but it need not, and in fact never does, 
    explain all the facts with which it can be confronted.
  
    The temptation to write history backward is both omnipresent and perennial.
  }
  The Copernican Revolution {
    There is no way of proving that a conceptual scheme is final.
    
    Men who believed that their terrestrial home was only a planet circulating blindly about one of any infinity of stars 
    evaluated their place in the cosmic scheme quite differently than had their predecessors who saw the earth as the unique 
    and focal center of God's creation.
    
    The initial battle between Copernicus and the astronomers of antiquity was fought over technical minutiae...
    
    Copernicus himself believed in neither [infinite space nor the possibility of a vacuum]. As we shall see, he tried to preserve most of the 
    central feautures of Aristotelian and Ptolemaic cosmology.
    
    Copernicus...belonged to the minority group of Renaissance astronomers who did not cast horoscopes.
    
    em(De Revolutionibus)...is a relatively staid, sober, and unrevolutionary work.
    
    Copernicus' system is neither simpler nor more accurate than Ptolemy's.
    
    The significance of em(De Revolutionibus) lies, then, less than in what it says itself than in what it caused others to say.
    The book gave rise to a revolution that it had scarcely enunciated.
    
    The Copernican Revolution, as we know it, is scarcely to be found in the em(De Revolutionibus) and that is the second essential 
    incongruity of the text. 
    
    During the century and a half following Galileo's death in 1642, a belief in the earth-centered universe was gradually 
    transformed from an essential sign of sanity to an index, first, of inflexible conservatism, then of excessive parochialism, and 
    finally of complete fanaticism.
  }
}

DeMarco, Tom {
  Structured Analysis and System Specification {
    The human mind is an iterative processor. It never does anything precisely right the first time.
    What it does consummately well is to make a slight improvement to a flawed product.
  }
}

Dijkstra, Edsger W. { 
  The Humble Programmer {
    Perhaps the most saddening thing now is that, even after all those years of frustrating experience, 
    still so many people honestly believe that some law of nature tells us that machines have to be that way. 
    They silence their doubts by observing how many of these machines have been sold, and derive from that 
    observation the false sense of security that, after all, the design cannot have been that bad. But upon 
    closer inspection, that line of defense has the same convincing strength as the argument that cigarette 
    smoking must be healthy because so many people do it.
    
    We should recognise the closed subroutine as one of the greatest software inventions; 
    it has survived three generations of computers, and it will survive a few more, because it caters 
    for the implementation of one of our basic patterns of abstraction.    
  }
  Goto Statement Considered Harmful {
    ...our intellectual powers are rather geared to master static relations and that our powers to visualize 
    processes evolving in time are relatively poorly developed.
  }
}

McEwan, Ian  {
  The Child in Time {
    Shakespeare would have grasped wave functions, Donne would have understood complementarity and relative time.
    They would have been excited. What richness! They would have plundered this new science for their imagery.
    And they would have educated their audiences too. But you 'arts' people, you're not only ignorant of these
    magnificent things, you're rather proud of knowing nothing.
  }
}

Gogh, Vincent van {
  I cannot help it that my pictures do not sell. Nevertheless, the time will come when people 
  will see that they are worth more than the price of the paint.
}

Whitehead, Alfred North {
  Introduction to Mathematics {
    Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations which we can perform without thinking about them.
  }
}

Gould, Glenn {
  The purpose of art is the lifelong creation of a state of wonder.
}

Comte de Buffon {
  Genius is only a greater aptitude for patience.
}

Cummings, E. E. {
  listen: there's a hell of a good universe next door; let's go.
}

Mother Theresa {
  The biggest disease in the world today is not leprosy or tuberculosis, but rather the feeling of being 
  unwanted, uncared for, and deserted by everybody.
}


Whitman, Walt {
  Song of Myself {
    I and this mystery here we stand.
    
    pre(I bequeath myself to the dirt to grow from the grass I love, 
If you want me again look for me under your boot-soles.)
  
  If you would understand me go to the heights or water-shore.
  The nearest gnat is an explanation...

    And I or you pocketless of a dime may purchase the pick of the earth,
    and to glance with an eye or show a bean in its pod confounds the learning of all times,
    and there is no trade or employment but the young man following it may become a hero,
    and there is no object so soft but it makes a hub for the wheel'd universe,
    and I say to any man or woman, 
    let your soul stand cool and composed before a million universes.
  }
}

Sigourney, Lydia {
  The Stars {
    pre(Ho! bold Orion, with thy lion-shield;
What tidings from the chase? what monsters slain?)
  }
}

Lovelock, James {
  Gaia - A New Look at Life on Earth {
    It is an intriguing thought that without the assistance of those anaerobic microflora living in the stinking muds 
    of the sea-beds, lakes, and ponds, there might be no reading or writing of books.
    Without the methane they produce, oxygen would rise inexorably in concentration to a level at which 
    any fire would be a holocaust and land life, apart from the microflora in damp places, would be impossible.
  }
  The Revenge of Gaia { 
    ...the Earth's disease, the fever brought on by a plague of people.
    
    Most of all, [the greens] must drop their wrongheaded objection to nuclear energy.
    
    Because we are tribal animals, the tribe does not act in unison until a real and present danger is perceived.
    
    I find it sad, but all too human, that there are vast bureaucracies concerned with nuclear waste, huge 
    organizations devoted to decommissioning nuclear power stations, but nothing comparable to deal with 
    that truly malign waste, carbon dioxide.
    
    Few, even among climate scientists and ecologists, seem yet to realize fully the potential severity, 
    or the immanence, of catastrophic global disaster; understanding is still in the conscious mind alone and 
    not yet the visceral reaction of fear.
    
    We are no more qualified to be the stewards or developers of the Earth than are goats to be gardeners.
    
    Despite all these warnings, we carry on destroying and seem to worry only about the nearly trivial, even imaginary,
    risk of cancer from mobile telephones, power lines, pesticide residues in food, or sunlight; topping them 
    all is a fear of anything to do with nuclear energy.
    
    How on Earth, you may ask, can something so good, something so benign as nuclear energy have been demonized to 
    the point where people and sensitive governments are frightened to use it? I think it is a consequence of 
    the vulnerability of people to the astonishing power to deceive of an endlessly repeated falsehood.
  }
}

Dawkins, Richard {
  The Selfish Gene {
    The replicators which survived were the ones which built em(survival machines) for themselves to live in.
    
    They are in you and me; they created us, body and mind; and their preservation is the ultimate rationale for 
    our existence. They have come a long way, those replicators. Now they go by the name of genes, and we are 
    their survival machines.
    
    But genes are denizens of geological time: genes are forever.
    
    The genes are master programmers, and they are programming for their lives. 
    They are judged according to the success of their progress in coping with all the hazards which life
    throws at their survival machines, and the judge is the ruthless judge of the court of survival.
  }
  The God Delusion {
    I have found it an amusing strategy, when asked whether I am an atheist, to point out that the questioner is also 
    an atheist when considering Zeus, Apollo, Amon Ra, Mithras, Baal, Thor, Wotan, the Golden Calf and the 
    Flying Spaghetti Monster. I just go one god further.
    
    St. Augustine said it quite openly: 'There is another form of temptation, even more fraught with danger. 
    This is the disease of curiosity.'
  }
}

Gray, Muriel {
  But it has never been clearer that there is only one place to lay the blame [for 9/11] and it has ever been thus.
  The cause of all this misery, mayhem, violence, terror and ignorance is of course religion itself, and if it seems 
  ludicrous to have to state such an obvious reality, the fact is that the government and the media are doing a pretty 
  good job of pretending that it isn't so.
}

Brodie, Richard {
  Virus of the Mind {
    To the universe, there's no em(you), or human beings, or giraffes, or solar systems, or galaxies. 
    All those are human-invented distinctions. They are all memes.
    
    Our minds excel at copying information and at following instructions.
    Remember the four characteristics of a virus: penetration, copying, possibly issuing instructions, and spreading.
    As horrifying as the thought may be initially, our minds are ideally susceptible to infection by mind viruses.
    
    Memes involving danger, food, and sex spread faster than other memes because we are wired to pay more 
    attention to them - we have em(buttons) around those subjects.
    
    The ideas that spread the easiest, and therefore pervade society, are the ones that easily penetrate that old 
    Stone-Age brain of ours. The whole of science has been a concerted effort to em(foil) that natural selection of Stone-Age 
    ideas by our brains and instead select ideas that are useful, that work, that are accurate models of reality.
    
    A recent Diet Pepsi campaign featured celebrities and showgirls smiling, cavorting, and grunting "uh-huh!" for 
    half a minute. Not exactly a logical delineation of the product's features and benefits.
    
    Here is why imitation is so widespread; it is a good strategy. The others being imitated are the end line 
    of a billion years of natural selection; they are the em(survivors), the successful replicators.
  }
}

Frankfurt, Harry {
  On Bullshit {
    One of the most salient features of our culture is that there is so much bullshit. Everyone knows this.
    Each of us contributes his share. But we tend to take the situation for granted.
    
    In the old days, craftsmen did not cut corners. They worked carefully, and they took care with every 
    aspect of their work. Every part of the product was considered, and each was designed and made to be 
    exactly as it should be. These craftsmen did not relax their thoughtful self-discipline even with 
    respect to features of their work that would ordinarily not be visible. Although no one would notice 
    if those features were not quite right, the craftsmen would be bothered by their consciences. 
    So nothing was swept under the rug. Or, one might perhaps also say, there was no bullshit.

    Her statement is not germane to the enterprise of describing reality.

    It is just his lack of connection with a concern with truth - this indifference to how things really are - that I regard 
    as the essence of bullshit.
    
    For the essence of bullshit is not that it is em(false) but that it is em(phony).
    
    The problem of understanding why our attitude toward bullshit is generally more benign than our 
    attitude toward lying is an important one, which I shall leave as an exercise for the reader.
    
    It is impossible for someone to lie unless he thinks he knows the truth.
    Producing bullshit requires no such conviction.
    
    [The bullshitter] does not reject the authority of the truth, as the liar does, and oppose himself to it.
    He pays no attention to it at all. By virtue of this, bullshit is a greater enemy of the truth than lies are.
  }
}

Smolin, Lee {
  The Trouble With Physics {
    The most cherished goal in physics, as in bad romance novels, is unification.
    
    To be fair, we have made two experimental discoveries in the past few decades: that neutrinos have mass and that 
    the universe is dominated by a mysterious dark energy that seems to be accelerating its expansion.
    
    On the other hand, if string theorists are wrong, they can't be just a little wrong. If the new dimensions 
    and symmetries do not exist, then we will count string theorists among science's greatest failures, like 
    those who continued to work on Ptolemaic epicycles while Kepler and Galileo forged ahead. Theirs will be 
    a cautionary tale of how not to do science, how not to let theoretical conjecture get so far beyond the 
    limits of what can rationally be argued that one starts engaging in fantasy.
    
    Some people need to think through everything very carefully, and this takes time, as they get easily confused.
    It's not hard to feel superior to such people, until you remember that Einstein was one of them.
    
    What is remarkable to me is the number of distinguished scientists who seem unable to accept the 
    possibility either that string theory or the hypothesis of a random multiverse is wrong. 
    
    ...it is not good for any field if any one person's views are taken too authoritatively. There is no scientist, 
    not even Newton or Einstein, who was not wrong on a substantial number of issues they had strong views about.
    
    If your ideas are right and you fight for them, you'll accomplish something... No one but you can develop your ideas, 
    and no one but you will fight for them.
    
    But what is equally important, and sobering, is how often we fool ourselves. And we fool ourselves not only 
    individually but en masse. The tendency of a group of human beings to quickly come to believe something that its 
    individual members will later see as obviously false is truly amazing.
    
    Feyerabend insisted that scientists should never agree, unless they are forced to.
    
    If a highly disciplined subject like physics is vulnerable to the symptoms of groupthink, what may be happening 
    in other, less rigorous areas?
    
    [String theorists] seem to feel that appeal to consensus within their community is equivalent to rational argument.
    
    Good ideas are not taken seriously enough when they come from people of low status in the academic world; conversely,
    the ideas of high-status people are often taken too seriously.
  }

}

Grothendieck, Alexander {
  Récoltes et semailles {
   It is in this gesture of "going beyond", to be something in oneself rather than the pawn of a consensus,
   the refusal to stay within a rigid circle that others have drawn around one - it is in this solitary act 
   that one finds true creativity. All other things follow as a matter of course. 
  }
}

Gibbs, Josiah W. {
  One of the principal objects of theoretical research is to find the point of view from which the subject 
  appears in the greatest simplicity.
}

Dalrymple, Theodore {
  Our Culture, What's Left Of It {
    The only permissible judgement in polite society is that no judgement is permissible.
    
    Attention to detail...attenuates in an environment of generalized ugliness.
    
    When young people want to praise themselves, they describe themselves as "nonjudgemental". For them,
    the highest form of morality is amorality.
    
    As many [of my patients] have told me, they prefer disaster to boredom.
    
    One of them [photos of British life during the war] was ever present in my mind when I entered a bomb shelter 
    with my friends: that of two young children, both blind, their sightless eyes turned upward to the sound 
    of the explosions above them, a heart-rending look of incomprehension on their faces.
  }
}

Greenspan, Philip{
 [Having venture capitalists run your company] was like watching a kindergarten class get into a Boeing 747 and 
 flip all the switches and try to figure out why it didn't take off.
} 

Aiken, Howard {
  Don't worry about people stealing your ideas. If your ideas are any good, you'll have to 
  ram them down people's throats.
}

Hugo, Victor {
  Les travailleurs de la mer {
    La beauté me fait du bien en étant belle.
  }
}

Bryson, Bill {
  A Short History of Nearly Everything {
    Being you is not a gratifying experience at the atomic level.
    
    Space is extremely well named and rather dismayingly uneventful.
    
    There seemed to be a mystifying universal conspiracy among textbook authors to make certain the material they dealt with never 
    strayed too near the realm of the mildly interesting, and was always at least a long-distance phone call from the frankly 
    interesting.
  }
}

Reeves, Hubert {
  Patience dans l'azur {
    Étendez-vous sur le sol, la nuit, loin des lumières. 
    Fermez les yeux. Après quelques minutes, ouvrez-les sur la voûte étoilée... Vous aurez le vertige. 
    Collé a la surface de votre vaisseau spatial, vous vous sentirez em(dans) l'espace. 
    Goutez-en longuement l'ivresse.
  }  
}

Jacobs, Jane {
  The Death and Life of Great American Cities {
    As in the pseudoscience of bloodletting, just so in the pseudoscience of city rebuilding and planning, 
    years of learning and a plethora of subtle and complicated dogma have arisen on a foundation of nonsense.
    
    Cities are, by definition, full of strangers.
    
    Ask a houser how his planned neighborhood improves on the old city and he will cite, as a 
    self-evident virtue, More Open Space... More Open Space for what? For muggings?
    
    In cities, liveliness and variety attract more liveliness, deadness and monotony repel life.
  }
}

Tillich, Paul {
  By its nature, the metropolis provides what otherwise could be given only by traveling; namely, the strange.
}

Csikszentmihaly, Mihaly {
  Flow {
    I developed a theory of optimal experience based on the concept of em(flow) - the state in which people are so 
    involved in an activity that people will do it even at great cost, for the sheer sake of doing it.
    
    Enjoyment appears at the boundary between boredom and anxiety, when the challenges are just balanced with the person's 
    capacity to act.
    
    The more a job inherently resembles a game - with variety, appropriate and flexible challenges, clear goals, and immediate 
    feedback - the more enjoyable it will be regardless of the worker's level of development.
  }
}

Wilde, Oscar {
  Consistency is the last refuge of the unimaginative.
  
  ...facts are either kept in their proper subordinate position, or else entirely excluded on the general ground of dullness.
  
  Many a young man starts in life with a natural gift for exaggeration which, if nurtured in congenial and sympathetic 
  surroundings, or by the imitation of the best models, might grow into something really great and wonderful.
  But, as a rule, he comes to nothing. He either falls into careless habits of accuracy..., or takes to frequenting the 
  society of the aged and well-informed.
}

Gardner, Ava {
  Deep down, I'm pretty superficial.
}

Greer, Germaine {
   In any library in the world, I am at home, unselfconscious, still, and absorbed.
}

Bray, Tim {
  Beautiful Code {
    Computers can compute, but that's not what people use them for, mostly. Mostly, computers store and retrieve information.
  }
}

Frye, Northrop{
  A big library really has the gift of tongues and vast potencies of telepathic communication.
}

Manguel, Alberto {
  The Library at Night {
    At night I can read with a lightheartedness verging on insousiance.
    
    My books have unlimited patience. They will wait for me till the end of my days.
  }
}

Huston, Nancy {
  ...l'exquise douceur de la voix féminine...
}

Honoré, Carl {
  In Praise of Slow {
    When God made time he made plenty of it.
    
    In Gulliver's Travels (1726), the Lilliputians decide that Gulliver consults his watch so often 
    that it must be his god.
  }
}


Sennett, Richard {
  The Fall of Public Man {
    Today, public life has also become a matter of formal obligation. Most citizens approach their dealings with 
    the state in a spirit of resigned acquiescence, but this public enervation is in its scope much 
    broader than political affairs. Manners and ritual interchanges with strangers are looked on as at best 
    formal and dry, at worst as phony. The stranger himself is a threatening figure, and few people can 
    take great pleasure in that world of strangers, the cosmopolitan city.
    
    Behaving with strangers in an emotionally satisfying way and yet remaining aloof from them was seen 
    by the mid-18th century as the means by which the human animal was transformed into a 
    social being.
    
    During the 19th century the family came to appear less and less the center of a particular, non-public region, 
    more an idealized refuge, a world all its own, with a higher moral value than the public realm.
  }
}

Host, Michel {
  Valet de nuit {
    C'est ici, dans l'exercise d'une marche tranquille, que je saisis le mieux l'abolition possible et féconde du temps.
  }
}

Wilson, R. M. {
  Ripley Bogle {
    I can wheel and circle without restraint...and I can breathe unlimited by wall and roof.  
    
    I am forced to admit that over the past couple of days I have not held the banner of Veracity and Rectitude as 
    steadily as I might have done.
    
    In real life I'd soon be graced with a headhole that was, strictly speaking, surplus to my cranial requirements.
    
    She smiles in her turn, her eyes adorned with the indifference of beauty.
    
    This was fortunate as my darling mother had vowed to boil my head if I got into more trouble and she wasn't
    one for hyperbole.
    
    Perhaps that's why my style is so florid, so rotund, so fucking courtly.
    
    Things looked black indeed for young Bogle until the fellow that they had been assaulting rose to his feet and 
    began to lend me assistance in the most vigorous fashion, employing the cricket bat he had been carrying with 
    great elan and native dexterity. 
    
    My hair is winning few prizes but it's vaguely presentable, in half light, with a paper bag over my head.
    
    I'm glad to see that the twin tides of wit and discernment have not entirely ebbed from South London.
  }
}

Mlodinow, Leonard {
  The Drunkard's Walk {
    When chance is involved, people's thought processes are often seriously flawed.
    
    We habitually underestimate the effect of randomness.
    
    Complete chaos is ironically a kind of perfection.
    
    Avoiding the illusion of meaning in random patterns is a difficult task.
    
    ...we should learn to spend as much time looking for evidence that we are wrong as we spend searching for 
    reasons we are correct.
  }
}

Melville, Herman {
  Moby Dick {
    Top-heavy was the ship as a dinnerless student with all Aristotle in his head.
    
    This right-whale I take to have been a Stoic; the sperm whale, a Platonian, who might have taken up Spinoza in his later years.
    
    Circumambulate the city of a dreary Sabbath afternoon.
    
    Yes, as everyone knows, meditation and water are wedded forever.
    
    ...I never fancied broiling fowls; - though once broiled, judiciously buttered, and judgmatically salted and 
    peppered, there is no one who will speak more respectfully, not to say reverentially, of a broiled fowl than I will.
    
    I'll try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness has proved but hollow courtesy.
    
    Already we are boldly launched upon the deep; but soon we shall be lost in its unshored, harborless immensities.
    
    Yea, foolish mortals, Noah's flood is not yet subsided; two thirds of the fair world it yet covers.
    
    Panting and snorting like a mad battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean overruns the globe.
  }
}

Shapin, Steven {
  The Scientific Revolution {  
    The framework that modern natural philosophers preferred to Aristotelian teleology was one that explicitly 
    modelled nature on the characteristics of a em(machine).
    
    The machine metaphor might, then, be a vehicle for "taking the wonder out" of our understanding of nature or,
    as the sociologist Max Weber put it in the early twentieth century, for the "disenchantment of the world".
  }
}

Sagan, Carl {
  Cosmos {
    Our achievements rest on the accomplishments of 40,000 generations of our human predecessors, all but a tiny 
    fraction of which are nameless and forgotten.
    
    ...these are some of the things that hydrogen atoms do, given fifteen billion years of cosmic evolution.
  }
}

Johnson, George {
 A Shortcut Through Time {
   One pattern of 0s and 1s is converted into another, and that is what computation is.
 }
}

Perelman, S. J. {
  The Road to Miltdown {
    The light of the bar was too dim to determine whether their lingerie had come from Bendel's or Bonwit's, 
    but everything proclaimed them to be women not visibly harassed by the specter of want.
    
    Scene: ... a small cheerless room equipped with the standard instruments of torture - a desk, two chairs, a filing cabinet.
    
    He is in his mid-sixties, ramrod-straight, affects a white cavalry moustache and a buttonhole, and is well-dressed 
    to the point of dandyism.
    
    Dr. Budlong bore a chilling resemblance to the mummified remains of Ramses II...
    
    Though hardly the comeliest girl in the class, Celia possessed a figure so voluptuous that it addled 
    every male within a radius of fifty feet.
    
    The mood of the quartet was distinctly festive; tongues loosened by copious draughts of loganberry 
    cocktails, their flushed cheeks and sparkling eyes marked them incontrovertibly as devotees of Bacchus.
    
    Then, out of the blue, Alec Fragonard, who played second leper in the road company of em(Father Damien's Chickens)
    last season...
  }
}

Renzetti, Elizabeth {
  Facebook is a fusillade of vacation photos and cat miscellany, but a letter is a guided missile to one person's heart.
}

Taleb, Nassim  {
  For Yevgenia Krasnova, a person could love one book, at most a few - beyond this was a form of promiscuity.
  
  Our problem is not just that we do not know the future, we do not know much of the past either.
  
  The idea that in order to make a decision you need to focus on the consequences (which you can know) rather 
  than the probability (which you can't know) is the central idea of uncertainty. Much of my life is based on it.
  
  One frequent confusion: people believe that I am suggesting that agents should bet on Black Swans taking place, 
  when I am saying they should avoid blowing up should a Black Swan take place.
  
  People do not realize that success consists mainly in avoiding losses, not in trying to derive profits.
  
  Do not confuse the absence of volatility with the absence of risk.
}

Murphy, John {
  Every so often a disappearance is in order. A vanishing. A checking out. An indeterminate period of unavailability.
}

Theroux, Paul {
  The Tao of Travel {
    The whole point of travelling is to arrive alone, like a spectre, in a strange country at nightfall, not in the 
    brightly lit capital but by the back door, in the wooded countryside, hundreds of miles from the metropolis... Arriving 
    in the hinterland with only the vaguest plans is a liberating event. It can be a solemn occasion for discovery, or 
    more like an irresponsible and random haunting of another planet.
  }
}

Carr, Nicolas {
  The Shallows {
    The Net is, by design, an interruption system, a machine geared for dividing attention.
    
    "How do users read on the Web?", [Jakob Neilsen] asked them. His succinct answer: "They don't."
    
    Once a means to an end, a way to identify information for deeper study, scanning is becoming an end in itself.
  }
}

Bauerlein, Mark {
  The Dumbest Generation {
    ...ordinary reading, slow and uniform, strikes them [digital natives] as incompatible, alien. 
    It isn't just boring and obsolete. It's irritating.
    
    Few things are worse for adolescent minds than overblown appraisals of their merits.
    
    The more mentors have engaged youth in youth terms, though, the more youth have disengaged from the 
    mentors themselves and from the culture they are supposed to represent.
    
    The 18-year-old may have a Visa card, cell phone, My Space page, part-time job, Play Station 2, 
    and an admissions letter to State U., but ask this wired and on-the-go high school senior a 
    few intellectual questions and the facade of in-the-knowness crumbles.
    
    For all their technological adroitness, they don't read or write or divide very well.
    
    Fully 45 percent of the students just don't think leisure reading is important ("a little" or "not at all"). 
    Unconvinced of what adult readers feel deep in their hearts and know from long experience, nearly 
    half of the student body disregards books by choice and disposition, and they don't expect to suffer for it.
    In their minds, a-literacy and anti-intellectualism pose no career obstacles, and they have no 
    shame attached.
    
    How serenely this undergrad announces the transfer from "the whole book thing" to the Internet, as if the 
    desertion of a civilization's principal storehouse merits little more than a shrug.
    
    In an average young person's online experience, the senses may be stimulated and the ego touched,
    but vocabulary doesn't expand, memory doesn't improve, analytic talents don't develop, and 
    erudition doesn't ensue.
    
    If the guardians of tradition claim that the young, though ignorant, have a special perspective on the past,
    or if teachers prize the impulses of tenth-graders more than the thoughts of the wise and the works 
    of the masters, learning loses its point. The thread of intellectual inheritance snaps.
    
    Over the years, the indulgence of youth circulated among educators and settled into sanctioned pedagogy with a 
    predictable result: not an unleashing of independent, creative, skeptical mental energies of rising students,
    but what we have seen in previous chapters, routine irreverence and knowledge deficits.
   
    In 1959, political philosopher Leo Strauss defined liberal education as "the counter-poison to mass culture".
    A history professor who agrees with this view today becomes a fuddy-duddy in his own department.
    
    Spend some hours in school zones and you see that the indulgent attitude toward youth, along with the downplaying 
    of tradition, has reached the point of dogma among teachers, reporters, researchers, and creators in arts 
    and humanitarian fields, and pro-knowledge, pro-tradition conceptions strike them as bluntly unpleasant, if 
    not reactionary and out of touch.
    
    Confidence and enjoyment don't guarantee better students. 
    Furthermore, they prevent the students from forming one of the essential ingredients of long-term success: an 
    accurate, realistic appraisal of their present capacities.
    
    A predictable descent commenced. The sixties generation's leaders didn't anticipate how their claim 
    of exceptionalism would affect the next generation, and the next, but the sequence was entirely 
    logical. Informed rejection of the past became uninformed rejection of the past, and then 
    the complete and unworried ignorance of it.
  }
}

Dubois, W. E. B. {
   I sit with Shakespeare and he winces not. Across the color-line I move arm in arm with Balzac and Dumas, 
   where smiling men and welcoming women glide in gilded halls. From out the caves of the evening that 
   swing between the strong-limbed earth and the tracery of the stars, I summon Aristotle and Aurelius... 
   and they come all graciously with no scorn nor condescension. 
}

ZzzUnknown {
  King James Bible {
      ...of making books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh.
      
      Awake, ye drunkards, and weep: and howl, all ye drinkers of wine, because of the new wine; for it is 
      cut off from your mouth.
      
      Because ye have taken my silver and gold, and have carried into your temples my goodly pleasant things.

      ...for them that honour me I will honour, and they that despise me shall be lightly esteemed.

      Now will I shortly pour out my fury upon thee, and accomplish mine anger upon thee: and I will judge thee according 
      to thy ways, and will recompense thee for all thine abominations.
      
      ...and ye shall know that I am the Lord that smiteth.
      
      Destruction cometh; and they shall seek peace, and there shall be none.
      
      And now she is planted in the wilderness, in a dry and thirsty ground.

      ...because the daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched forth necks and wanton eyes, walking 
      and mincing as they go, and making a tinkling with their feet.
      
      And it shall come to pass, that instead of sweet smell there shall be stink...

      Which doeth great things past finding out; yea, and wonders without number.
      
      How long will ye vex my soul, and break me in pieces with words?
      
      Suffer me that I may speak; and after that I have spoken, mock on.
      
      Is not thy wickedness great? And thine iniquities infinite?
      
      The words of Job are ended.
      
      If now thou hast understanding, hear this: hearken to the voice of my words.
      
      When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?
      
      Hast thou entered into the treasures of the snow?
      
      So Job died, being old and full of days.

      Hear, for I will speak of excellent things.
      
      A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger.
      
      Pleasant words are as an honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones.
      
      As a dog returneth to his vomit, so a fool returneth to his folly.
      
      When he speaketh fair, believe him not: for there are seven abominations in his heart.

      But he turned, and said unto Peter, "Get thee behind me, Satan: thou art an offence unto me: for
      thou savourest not the things that be of God, but those that be of men."
      
      I will open my mouth in parables; I will utter things kept secret since the world was made.
  }
}

Fitzgerald, F. Scott {
  The Great Gatsby {
    I think he'd tanked up a good deal at luncheon and his determination to have my company bordered on violence.
    
    When the melody rose her voice broke up sweetly, following it, in a way contralto voices have, and each change 
    tipped out a little of her warm human magic upon the air.
    
    "Can't repeat the past?" he cried incredulously. "Why of course you can!"
    
    "Her voice is full of money," he said suddenly.
  }
}

Bowden et. al. {
  Faster Than Thought {
    The machines have already reached the stage where the most common source of error is the human beings who programme them.
    
    A rough count showed that about 150 machines are under construction in America and England. 
    One sometimes wonders where the programmers will come from.
    
    Coding time is usually only a fraction of the total time involved in getting the programme to work - such is the 
    frailty of mankind.
  }
} 
 
Conrad, Joseph {
  Nostromo {
    The priest's inquisitional instincts suffered but little from the want of classical apparatus of the Inquisition.
    
    There is no credulity so eager and blind as the credulity of covetousness, which, in its universal extent, 
    measures the moral misery and the intellectual destitution of mankind.
    
    The heroic Garibaldino sat on the same bench bowing his hoary head, his old soul dwelling alone with its 
    memories, tender and violent, terrible and dreary - solitary on the earth full of men.
  }
  The Shadow-Line {
    He, as I knew, was not in a state to interest himself in any sublunary matters.
    
    He would have amused me if I had wanted to be amused.
  }
} 

Martel, Yann  { 
  Beatrice and Virgil {
    The precept that location is the key to the success of a business applies to art, and even to life itself: we 
    thrive or wither depending on how nourishing our environment is.
  }
}

Blyth, Chas { 
  So I lowered the sails... and once I had lowered them there was nothing more I could do except pray. 
  So I prayed. And between times I turned to one of my sailing manuals to see what advice it contained 
  for me. It was like being in hell with instructions.
}
 
Auden, W. H. {
  As I Walked Out One Evening {
    pre(...The years shall run like rabbits
For in my arms I hold
The Flower of the Ages,    
And the first love of the world.

But all the clocks in the city
Began to whir and chime:
O let not time deceive you, 
You cannot conquer time....

In headaches and in worry 
Vaguely life leaks away, 
And Time will have his fancy
To-morrow or today...
    )
  }
} 

Lovecraft, H. P. {
  The Picture in the House {
    In the doorway stood a person of such singular appearance that I should have exclaimed aloud but for 
    the restraints of good breeding.
  }
}

Joffo, Joseph {
  Incertain sourire {
    Je suis athée, Dieu merci...
  }
}

Bly, Robert {
  The Sibling Society {
    ...infantilization is deepening in a culture increasingly driven by electronics.
    
    Television is stealing the neocortex's observation time and giving a little useless information in return.
    
    But today we are lying to ourselves about the renaissance the computer will bring. It will bring nothing.
    
    We do not value initiation of young men or women, because we can't imagine invisible gifts any more.
    
    Capitalism has siphoned off male energy.
  }
}

Basho {
  pre(The temple bell stops,
but the sound keeps coming
out of the flowers.)
}

Maistre, Xavier de {
  A Journey Around My Room {
    What a capital article of furniture an arm-chair is, and what a treasure to a thoughtful man! During the long winter 
    evenings it is often delightful, and always prudent, to lounge luxuriously in it, far from the turmoil of the 
    madding crowd. A good fire, books, and pens; what safeguards these are against ennui! And how pleasant again, to 
    forget books and pens in the delights of stirring the fire, while giving one's-self up to some sweet thought, 
    or making a few rhymes for the amusement of friends! The hours glide by and fall into silence - into eternity, without 
    making their sad passage felt.
    
    The moment was short and full of ecstasy; cold reason soon resumed her sway, and in the twinkling of an eye, a whole 
    year was added to my life; my heart grew icy cold, and I found myself on a level with the throng of 
    commonplace beings who crowd the earth.
    
    Happy is he who finds a friend whose heart and mind are in sympathy with his own; a friend who is linked to him by 
    similar tastes, feelings, and knowledge; a friend who is not tormented by ambition or egotism; who prefers the shade of 
    a tree to the pomp of a court! Happy is he who possesses a friend!
    
    We were happy in our errors, but now - ah! all is sadly changed. We have been compelled, like others, to read the 
    human heart; and truth, falling like a bomb into the midst of us, has forever destroyed the enchanted palace of illusion.
    
    From the expedition of the Argonauts to the Assembly of the Notables, from the nethermost Hell to the last fixed star 
    of the Milky Way, to the confines of the Universe, to the gates of chaos, this is the vast expanse over the 
    length and breadth of which I wander at leisure, for neither time nor space fail me.
    
    Delightful realm of Imagination, which the benevolent Being has bestowed upon man, to console him for the 
    realities of life, I must quit thee.
  }
  Expédition nocturne autour de ma chambre {
    C'est un charme toujours nouveau pour moi que celui de contempler le ciel étoilé, et je n'ai pas à me reprocher d'avoir 
    fait un seul voyage, ni même une simple promenade nocturne, sans payer le tribut d'admiration que je dois aux 
    merveilles du firmament.
    
    Spectateur éphémère d'un spectacle éternel, l'homme lève un instant les yeux vers le ciel, et les referme pour 
    toujours; mais, pendant cet instant rapide qui lui est accordé, de tous les points du ciel et depuis les bornes 
    de l'univers, un rayon consolateur part de chaque monde et vient frapper ses regards, pour lui annoncer qu'il existe 
    un rapport entre l'immensité et lui, et qu'il est associé à l'éternité.
    
    Combien peu de personnes, me disais-je, jouissent maintenant avec moi du spectacle sublime que le ciel étale 
    inutilement pour les hommes assoupis!... Passe encore pour ceux qui dorment; mais qu'en coûterait-il à ceux qui
    se promènent, a ceux qui sortent en foule du théâtre de regarder un instant et d'admirer les brillantes 
    constellations qui rayonnent de toutes parts sur leur tête? – Non, les spectateurs attentifs de Scapin ou 
    de Jocrisse ne daigneront pas lever les yeux: Ils vont rentrer brutalement chez eux, ou ailleurs, sans songer 
    que le ciel existe. Quelle bizarrerie!… parce qu'on peut le voir souvent et gratis, ils n'en veulent pas. 
    Si le firmament était toujours voilé pour nous, si le spectacle qu'il nous offre dépendait d'un entrepreneur, 
    les premières loges sur les toits seraient hors de prix, et les dames de Turin s'arracheraient ma lucarne.
  }
}

Moore, Christopher {
  Sacré Bleu {
    The Louvre's a little pious, isn't it? Can't throw a round of darts in there without scoring three Madonnas and a baby 
    Jesus.
    
    Bruant wasn't being particularly unkind to Lucien. Everything at Le Mirliton was served with a side order of abuse.
    
    They both waited, each took a drink, looked at her, said nothing. Dogs watching Shakespeare.
    
    You're grinning at me like lunatics? I am a creature of awesome power and divine aspect.
  }
}

Dante {
  L'amor che mi fa bella.  
  
  Heaven calls to you and around you wheels, displaying to you its eternal beauties, and your eye 
  gazes only upon the earth.
  
  Se tu segui tua stella, non puoi fallire a glorioso porto.
}

Goncharov, I. A. {
  Oblomov {
    Lying down was not for Ilya Ilyitch either a necessity as it is for a sick or a sleepy man, or an occasional 
    need as it is for a person who is tired, or a pleasure as it is for a sluggard: it was his normal state.
    
    He was never held captive by the beauties, however, never was their slave or even a very assiduous admirer, 
    if only because intimacy with a woman involves a lot of exertion.
    
    Masha came to ask him if he would like to go and see the river freezing: everyone was going.
    
    Their sensitive minds were never tired of this beauty: the earth, the sky, the sea - all roused 
    their feelings, and they sat side by side in silence, looking with one heart at the glory of creation.
  }
}

Wodehouse, P. G. {
  Carry On, Jeeves {
    If you fail, I shall know that your Aunt Agatha was right when she called you a spineless invertebrate and 
    advised me strongly not to marry you.
    
    He was a ferret-faced kid, whom I had disliked since birth.
    
    I am open to correction, sir...
    
    I shall naturally order my behaviour according to the accepted rules of civilized intercourse.
    
    ...the climatic conditions are congenial.
    
    Lay out our gent's medium-smart raiment, suitable for Bohemian revels.
    
    Mrs. Pringle's aspect was that of one who had had bad news round about the year 1900 and never really got over it.
    
    I was walking back along the shore,... when I saw the fat child meditatively smacking a jelly-fish with a spade.
    
    "Yes, sir," said Jeeves, in a low, cold voice, as if he had been bitten in the leg by a personal friend.
    
    Nobody has a greater respect than I have for your judgement in socks, in ties, and - I will go farther - in spats; but
    when it comes to evening shirts your nerve seems to fail you. You have no vision. You are prejudicial and reactionary. 
    Hidebound is the word that suggests itself.
    
    You may say what you want against Bingo, but nobody has ever found him a depressing host. Why, many a time in the days of his 
    bachelorhood I've known him to start throwing bread before the soup course.
  }
  
  The Code of the Woosters {
    You've met her. She came to lunch at the flat a week or two ago. Smallish girl of about the tonnage of Jessie Matthews.
    
    For Madeline Basset was undeniably of attractive exterior - slim, em(svelte), if that's the word, and bountifully
    equipped with golden hair and all the fixings.
    
    Yes. They were arguing about something, and Augustus told him to go and boil his head.
    
    Since you ask, Spode, I want to know what the devil you mean by keeping coming into my private apartment,
    taking up space which I require for other purposes and interrupting me when I am chatting with my personal friends.
    
    She had been as tough as a restaurant steak, and she continued as tough as a restaurant steak.
    
    It was plain from old Bassett's manner that he was not prepared to classify this under the heading of tidings of great joy.
    
    I ventured to suggest that it might be possible to induce him to leave his post by conveying word to him that the 
    parlourmaid Mary, to whom he was betrothed, wished to confer with him in the raspberry bushes.
  }
}

Morley, Christopher {
  Parnassus on Wheels {
    There is no hope for New Yorkers, for they glory in their skyscraping sins; but in Brooklyn there is the wisdom of the lowly.
    
    An honest amazement at the unspeakable beauties of the world is a comely posture for the scholar.
    
    Pluckiest little runt in the three States, by Judas!
  }
}

Du Maurier, George {
  Trilby {
     ... le bon temps où l'on était si malheureux.
  }
}

Smollett, Tobias {
  The Expedition of Humphry Clinker {
    I have got into a family of originals, whom I may one day attempt to describe for your amusement.
    
    ...and as to the few letters that passed between us, they are all in my uncle's hands, and I hope 
    they contain nothing contrary to innocence and honour.
    
    I vow to God your impertinence is exceedingly provoking.
    
    ...began to practise upon the French horn; and, being in the very first rudiments of execution, 
    produced such discordant sounds, as might have discomposed the organs of an ass.
    
    ...and let me tell you, it is no small alleviation of my grievances, that I have a sensible friend, to 
    whom I can communicate my crusty humours, which, by retention, would grow intolerably acrimonious. 
    
    ...and I am persuaded it produces infinite mischief to the delicate and infirm.
    
    Some cried, some swore, and the tropes and figures of Billingsgate were used without reserve in all their 
    native zest and flavour; nor were those flowers of rhetoric unattended with significant gesticulations.
  }
}

Pindaro {
  Sogno di un'ombra è l'uomo.
  
  Non desiderare, anima mia, la vita degli immortali, ma godi a fondo i beni alla tua porta.
}

Euripide {
  Meglio avere come amico una persona che non è di casa ma si identifica con i tuoi modi di essere, 
  piuttosto che mille parenti stretti.
}

Aristotele {
  Chiunque può arrabbiarsi: questo è facile. Ma arrabbiarsi con la persona giusta, e nel grado giusto, ed al momento 
  giusto, e per lo scopo giusto, e nel modo giusto: questo non è nelle possibilità di chiunque e non è facile.
}

Plutarco {
  Gli Spartani non chiedono quanti sono i nemici, ma dove si trovano.
}

Aurelio, Marco {
  ...ogni attimo una punta di eternità.
  
  La morte sorride a tutti; un uomo non puo far altro che sorriderle di rimando.
}

Flacco, Quinto Orazio {
  Ciò che cerchiamo o è qui o in nessun luogo.
}

Nasone, Publio Ovidio {
  E mentre gli altri animali, con la faccia in basso, guardano in terra, Dio ha dato all'uomo una fronte rivolta 
  verso l'alto, gli ha comandato di contemplare il cielo e di levare il volto verso gli astri.
}

Fedro {
  La vita è un giusto miscuglio di dolori e di gioie.
}

Trollope, Anthony {
  The Small House at Allington { 
    "Johnny Eames has come across Crosbie, and given him a desperate beating." "No," said Lady Julia, putting down 
    her newspaper and spectacles, and expressing by the light of her eyes anything but Christian horror at the 
    wickedness of the deed.
  }
}

Foote, Samuel {
  The Comic Theatre {
    This is extraordinary; but, come, unbosom yourself with freedom, and let us know the person to whom you 
    have thus engaged yesterday.
    
    What a bewitching eye she has! and then, such a shape! Odso, I believe this baggage will turn my brain.
    
    What surprise! - what joy! - what confusion! - Support me, Subtle! I am unable to bear 
    this conflict of tumultuous passions!
  }
}

Paglia, Camille {
  Masculinity is aggressive, unstable, combustible. It is also the most creative cultural force in history. 
}

Hoff-Somers, Christina {
  The War Against Boys {
    Does Gilligan really understand boys? She finds boys lacking in empathy, but does she empathize with them?
    ... The new pedagogies designed to "educate boys more like girls" (in Gloria Steinem's phrase) are not harmless.
    Their approach to boys is unacceptably meddlesome, and even subtly abusive.
    
    An unacknowledged animus against boys is loose in our society.
    
  }
}

Sheridan, R. B. {
  I hope, my Lord, those buckles have had the unspeakable satisfaction of being honoured with your Lordship's approbation?
  
  I will now show you the excess of my passion, by being very calm. Come, Lory, lay your loggerhead to mine, and, in cold blood, 
  let us contrive his destruction.
  
  He talked of accepting Lord Foppington's invitation to sup at Sir Tunbelly Clumsey's.
}

Zweig, Stefan {
  Moonbeam Alley {
    Her dress was disorderly, her voice husky from too much smoking and beer-drinking. Here 
    indubitably was a fellow-mortal who was weary unto death, and who only continued living out of 
    long-established habit.
  }
  Transfiguration {
    There was something saucy in this ostentation. Was she a confirmed flirt? Was she stirred by a surplus of 
    animal passion? I drew a step nearer, for I had been infected by her sauciness.
  }
}

Bennett, Arnold {
  The Old Wives' Tale {
    It must not be supposed that stout women of a certain age never seek to seduce the eye and 
    trouble the meditations of man by other than moral charms.
    
    She was attached to it by the heavy chains of habit.
  }
}

Smith, Adam {
  Society and conversation... are the most powerful remedies for restoring the mind to its tranquility...
}

Miller, Stephen {
  Conversation - A History of a Declining Art {
    The point is: one should try to enjoy the conversible world, despite its inanities, because removing oneself 
    from it is dangerous to one's mental health.
  }
}

Hazlitt, William {
    The studied forms of politeness do not give the greatest possible scope to an exuberance of wit and fancy. The 
    fear of giving offence destroys sincerity, and without sincerity there can be no true enjoyment of
    society, nor unfettered exertion of intellectual activity.
}

Steele and Addison {
  The Spectator {
    At length the audience grew tired of understanding [only] half the opera; and therefore to ease themselves 
    entirely of the fatigue of thinking...
    
    ...and old age, instead of introducing melancholy Prospects of Decay...
    
    ...whom I earnestly implore to accommodate me with a method how to settle my head and cool my brain-pan... 
  }
}

Bradford, Ernle {
  The Journeying Moon {
    But at sea, alone at the tiller, on a clear night with the stars in their millions and oneself alone, a 
    pinpoint to the Moon, I felt nearer to the cool abstract heart of the Universe.
    
    Sometimes, in the late hours with a big city blinking outside the windows, people ask "But, out of all the places
    you've been to, which would you prefer to live in?" Always I am about to say "Greece," then something 
    checks me, and I answer "Sicily".
  }
}

Souvestre, Emile {
  An Attic Philosopher In Paris {
    Getting the coffee ready is the most delicate and attractive of domestic operations to one who lives alone;
    it is the masterpiece of a bachelor's housekeeping.
    
    Is it really certain that happiness is the prize of brilliant successes, rather than of a wisely accepted poverty?
    Ah, if men but knew in what a small dwelling joy can live, and how little it costs to furnish it!
  }
}

Pierce, Charles {
  ...the woof and warp of all thought and research is symbols, and the life of thought and science is the life inherent in symbols; 
  so it is wrong to say that a good language is important to good thought, merely; for it is the essence of it.
}

Mencken, H. L. {
  The American Scene { 
    In the field of language an Americanism is generally regarded as obnoxious em(ipso facto), and when a new one of 
    any pungency begins to force its way into English usage the guardians of the national linguistic chastity belabor it 
    with great vehemence, and predict calamitous consequences if it is not put down.
    
    em(Damn) is a simple verb and its only child is a simple adjective, but em(hell) ranges over all the keys of the
    grammatical scale and enters into combinations as avidly as oxygen.
    
    That leveling, by the democratic theory, is upward, but in actuality it is downward, for the mob suspects and 
    resents superiorities, whereas inferiorities give it a pleasant glow.
    
    He liked people who sweated freely, and were not debauched by the refinements of the toilet.
  }
}

Yourcenar, Marguerite {
  How Wang Fo Was Saved {
     After the wedding, Ling's parents became discreet to the point of dying...
  }
}

Camus, Albert {
  Jonas, or the Artist at Work {
    Louisa's vocation was activity. Such a vocation happily complemented Jonas's taste for inertia.
  }
}

Forster, E. M. {
  Other Kingdom {
    Other Kingdom copse is just like any other beech copse, and I am therefore spared the fatigue of describing it.
  }
  
  The Curate's Friend {
    That evening, for the first time, I heard the chalk downs singing to each other across the valleys, 
    as they often do when the air is quiet and they have had a comfortable day.
  }
}

Farquar, George {
 Sir Harry Wildair {
   Some time ago he had got the travelling maggot in his head...
   
   ...to tell you, Madam, that I am a man unblemished in my honour, have nobly served my king and country; and for 
   a lady's service, I think that nature has not been defective.
   
   Madame, I have tought dat Fortune be one blind bitch.
 }
}

Stanford, W. B. {
 The Sound of Greek {
   He calls it [some uses of the Greek letter sigma] "a graceless disagreeable letter which gives great pain when used 
   in excess, for its hissing seems more akin to that of a brute beast than to that of a rational being." 
 }
}

Suetonius {
  Lives of the Caesars {
    So much for Caligula as emperor; we must now tell of his career as a monster.
  }
}

ZzzUnknown {
  Mémoires sur les prisons {
    A la place du supplice, elle [Mme. Roland] s'inclina devant la statue de liberté, et prononça ces paroles mémorables: "O liberté, que de crimes on commet en ton nom!"
      
    Cette époque, qui offre l'exemple de tous les crimes, offre aussi quelquefois celui de la vertu sublime.
    
    Au moment d'aller au supplice, on arracha, du sein d'une de ces infortunées, un enfant qu'elle nourrissait, et qui, au moment 
    même, s'abreuvait d'un lait dont le bourreau allait tarir la source. O cris de la douleur maternelle, que vous fûtes aigus!
    mais vous fûtes sans effet! Quelque femmes sont mortes dans la charrette, et on a guillotiné des cadavres.
  }
}

Roland, Mme {
  Mémoires {
    Sous le tranquil abri du toit paternel, j'étais heureuse dès l'enfance avec des fleurs et des livres: dans 
    l'étroite enceinte d'une prison, au milieu des fers imposés par la tyrannie la plus révoltante, j'oublie l'injustice 
    des hommes, leurs sottises et mes maux, avec des livres et des fleurs.
    
    Enfin, je ne me suis mariée qu'à vingt-cinq ans, et avec une ame telle qu'on peut la présumer, des sens très-inflammables, 
    beaucoup d'instruction sur divers objets; j'avais si bien évité l'instruction sur certain autre, que les 
    événemens du mariage me parurent aussi surprenans que désagréables.
    
    A quatorze ans, comme aujourd'hui, j'avais environs cinq pieds; ma taille avait acquis toute sa croissance; la jambe 
    bien faite, le pied bien posé, les hanches très-relevées; la poitrine large et superbement meublée... 
    
    ...madame de Roudé, par exemple, qui, malgré son âge, aimait encore à faire belle gorge, et portait toujours la sienne 
    à découvert, excepté lorsqu'elle montait en voiture, ou qu'elle en déscendait; car elle la cachait alors d'un grand 
    mouchoir qu'elle tenait à sa poche dans cette intention, parce que, disait-elle, cela n'est pas fait pour montrer 
    à des laquais.
 
    «Mon père, je m'accuse... - Eh bien!» Que dire après? Le coeur me battait, le feu me montait au visage; certaine sueur se 
    répandait partout: «Je m'accuse... d'avoir eu des mouvemens contraires à la chasteté chrétienne.» Ah! La bonne phrase!
  }
}

Gauss {
 Letter to Sophie Germain (1807) {
   The enchanting charms of this sublime science reveal themselves only to those who have the courage to go deeply into it.
   But when a woman, who because of her sex and our prejudices encounters infinitely more obstacles than a man in 
   familiarizing herself with complicated problems, succeeds nevertheless in surmounting these obstacles and 
   penetrating the most obscure parts of them, without doubt she must have the noblest courage, quite extraordinary 
   talents and superior genius. 
 }
}

Leibniz {
 Ordinary languages, though mostly helpful for the inferences of thought, are yet subject to countless ambiguities and 
 cannot do the task of a calculus, which is to expose mistakes in inference... This remarkable advantage is afforded 
 up to date only by the symbols of arithmeticians and algebraists, for whom inference consists only in the use 
 of characters, and a mistake in thought and in the calculus is identical.
}

Morellet, L'Abbé {
 Mémoires {
   "Oh! diable", dit M. de Buffon, la tête haute, les yeux à demi fermés, et avec un air moitié niais, moitié inspiré, 
   "oh! diable! quand il est question de clarifier son style, c'est une autre paire de manches."
   A ce propos, à cette comparaison des rues, voilà Mlle de l'Espinasse qui se trouble; sa physionomie s'altère, 
   elle se renverse sur son fauteil, répétant entre ses dents, "une autre paire de manches! clarifier son style!"
   Elle n'en revint pas de toute la soirée.
 }
}

Nichols, Tom {
 The Death of Expertise {
   The issue is not indifference to established knowledge; it's the emergence of a positive em(hostility) to such knowledge.
   
   Americans no longer distinguish the phrase "you're wrong" from "you're stupid". To disagree is to disrespect. 
   To correct another is to insult.
   
   College students may not be dumber than they were thirty years ago, but their sense of entitlement and their unfounded 
   self-confidence have grown considerably.
   
   "Well," the student said, "your guess is as good as mine." [Robert] Jastrow stopped the young man short. 
   "No, no, no" he said emphatically. "em(My) guesses are much, em(much) better than yours."
   
   When feelings matter more than rationality or facts, education is a doomed enterprise.
   Emotion is an unassailable defense against expertise, a moat of anger and resentment in which reason and knowledge quickly drown.
   And when students learn that emotion trumps everything else, it is a lesson they will take with them for the rest of their lives.
   
   To faculty everywhere, the lesson was obvious: the campus of a top university is not a place for intellectual exploration. 
   It is a luxury home, rented for four to six years, nine months at a time, by children of the elite who may shout at 
   faculty as if they're berating clumsy maids in a colonial mansion. 
 }
}

Weber {
 Mémoires {
   ...[les conseils officieux] nous informèrent aussi que la guillotine avait été déclarée permanente sur la place 
   du Carrousel; que cette place venait d'être nommée place de l'Egalité [août 1792]. 
 }
}

Poe, Edgar Allan {
  It was a night of unusual gloom.
  
  ...out of joy is sorrow born. Either the memory of past bliss is the anguish of to-day, or the agonies which 
  em(are) have their origin in the ecstasies which em(might have been).
  
  ...the play is the tragedy, "Man", and its hero the Conqueror Worm.
  
  For example, there are few men of extraordinary profundity who are found wanting in an inclination for the bottle.
  
  Among other ideas, that of universal equality gained ground; and in the face of analogy and of God - in despite 
  of the loud warning voice of the laws of gradation so visibly pervading all things in Earth and Heaven - wild 
  attempts at an omni-prevalent Democracy were made.
  
  The thousand injuries of Fortunato I had borne as I best could, but when he ventured upon insult I vowed revenge.
  
  I stood petrified with horror and rage. I endeavoured to reply, but my tongue refused its office.
  
  ...which confined me within the coffin, which deposited me within the hearse, which bore me to the grave, 
  which lowered me within it, which heaped heavily the mould upon me, and which thus left me, in blackness and corruption,
  to my sad and solemn slumbers with the worm.   
}

Campan, Mme {
 Mémoires {
   Ces excursions secrètes, la fréquentation trop habituelle de Louis XV avec des demoiselles dont les charmes 
   remplaçaient les avantages de l'éducation...
   
   Je rentrai chez moi pour écrire cette conversation.
   
   Puisque la fortune est si volage et que vous avez vu par vos propres yeux avec quelle rapidité elle abandonne ses 
   favoris, n'oubliez jamais ces deux vers de La Fontaine, et qu'ils vous servent de 
   devise: em(Travaillez, prenez de la peine; C'est le fonds qui manque le moins.)
   
   Voici un trait vraiment touchant qu'on raconte du jeune dauphin que la mort nous a enlevé.
   Ce prince étant tombé en langeur de la maladie dont il est mort, avait toujours témoigné beaucoup d'affection 
   à M. de Bourset, son valet de chambre. Il lui demanda un jour des ciseaux; ce gentilhomme lui représenta que 
   cela lui était défendu. L'enfant insista avec douceur, et l'on fut obligé de lui céder. Muni des ciseaux 
   qu'il désirait, il s'en servit pour se couper une boucle de cheveux qu'il enveloppa avec soin dans une feuille de papier: 
   "Tenez, Monsieur, dit-il à son valet de chambre, voilà le seul présent que je puisse vous faire, n'ayant rien
   à ma disposition; mais quand je serai mort, vous présenterez ce gage à mon papa et à maman; en se 
   souvenant de moi, j'espère qu'ils se souviendront de vous." [Le dauphin avait 7 ans.]
   
   C'était particulièrement contre la reine que l'insurrection était dirigée: je frémis encore en me souvenant que 
   les poissardes, ou plutôt les furies qui portaient des tabliers blancs, criaient qu'ils étaient destinés à
   recevoir les entrailles de Marie-Antoinette; qu'elles s'en feraient des cocardes, et mêlaient les expressions 
   les plus obscènes à ces horribles menaces; tant l'ignorance et la cruauté, qui se trouvent dans le masse de 
   presque tous les peuples, peuvent dans les temps de troubles leur inspirer des sentiments atroces!
   
   Le chevalier de Dampierre avait été tué près de la voiture du roi, en sortant de Varennes.
   Un pauvre curé de village, à quelques lieues de l'endroit où ce crime venait d'être commis, eut l'imprudence 
   de s'approcher pour parler au roi; les cannibales qui environnaient la voiture se jettent sur lui.
   "Tigres, leur cria Barnave, avez-vous cessé d'être Français? Nation de braves, êtes-vous devenue un peuple 
   d'assassins?..." Ces seules paroles sauvèrent d'une mort certaine le curé déjà terrassé. Barnave, en les
   prononçant, s'était jeté presque hors la portière, et madame Élisabeth, touchée de ce noble élan, le 
   retenait par la basque de son habit.
   
   La grande piété de madame Élisabeth donnaient à ses actions et à ses discours une noblesse qui peignait celle de son ame.
   Le jour où l'on immola cette digne descendante de saint Louis, le bourreau, en lui attachant les mains derrière le dos,
   releva une des pointes du devant de son fichu. Madame Élisabeth, avec un calme et une voix qui semblait ne pas 
   venir de la terre, lui dit ces mots: "Au nom de la pudeur, couvrez-moi le sein." J'ai appris ce trait 
   héroïque de madame de Sérilly, condamnée le même jour que la princesse, mais qui obtint un sursis au moment de 
   l'exécution, madame de Montmorin, sa parente, ayant déclaré que sa cousine était grosse.   
 }
}

Pirsig, R. M. {
 Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance {
   When one person suffers from a delusion, it is called insanity. When many people suffer from a delusion it is called Religion.
 }
}

Voltaire {
 Those who make you believe absurdities can make you commit atrocities.
}

Rowe, N. {
 Tamerlane {
   Away! my soul disdains thy conference.
   
   pre(Oh, glorious thought! By Heav'n I will enjoy it,
Tho but in fancy; imagination shall
Make room to entertain the vast idea.)
 }
 
 pre(...But standing now on the last verge of life,
Boldy I view the vast abyss, eternity,
Eager to plunge, and leave my woes behind me.)

}

Harari, Yuval {
 Homo Deus {
  Writing thus facilitated the appearance of powerful fictional entities...
  
  This obstacle was finally removed about 5,000 years ago, when the Sumerians invented both writing and money. 
  These Siamese twins - born to the same parents at the same time and in the same place - broke the data-processing 
  limitations of the human brain.
  
  ...witnesses in courts put their hand on a bible when swearing to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
  It's ironic that they swear to tell the truth on a book brimming with so many fictions, myths, and errors.
  
  Stories serve as the foundations and pillars of human societies. As history unfolded, stories about gods, nations, and 
  corporations grew so powerful that they began to dominate objective reality.
  
  The greatest scientific discovery was the discovery of ignorance.
  
  We see that the self too is an imaginary story, just like nations, gods and money.
  Each of us has a sophisticated system that throws away most of our experiences, keeps only a few choice samples... and 
  out of all that jumble it weaves a seemingly coherent story about who I am, where I came from and where I am going.
 }
 Sapiens {
   How did em(Homo sapiens) manage to cross this critical threshold, eventually founding cities comprising tens of 
   thousands of inhabitants, and empires ruling hundreds of millions? The secret was probably the appearance of fiction.
   Large numbers of strangers can cooperate successfully by believing in common myths.
   
   According to the French legislators, if a certified lawyer followed all the proper liturgy and rituals, wrote all the required 
   spells and oaths on a wonderfully decorated piece of paper, and affixed his ornate signature to the bottom of the document, 
   then hocus pocus - a new company was incorporated.
   
   We did not domesticate wheat. It domesticated us. The word em(domesticate) comes from the Latin em(domus), which means 
   em(house). Who's the one living in a house? Not the wheat. It's the em(Sapiens).
   
   Money was created many times in many places. Its development required no technological breakthroughs - it was a purely 
   mental revolution. It involved the creation of a new inter-subjective reality that exists solely in people's imagination.
   
   There is no trace of [the belief in heaven and hell] in the Old Testament, which also never claims that the souls of 
   people continue to live after the death of the body.
   
   These creeds do not like to be called religions, and refer to themselves as ideologies.
   But this is just a semantic exercise. If a religion is a system of human norms and values that is founded on
   belief in a superhuman order, then Soviet Communism was no less a religion than Islam.
 }
 
 There is no clear line. The whole thing works by being a bit opaque, cloudy, misty, and unclear.
 We think that the world is divided quite clearly; there is fiction and there is reality; but usually they just get mixed together. 
}

Matyszak, Philip {
 24 Hours in Ancient Athens{
   The hetaira's ideal beau is young, good-looking, lavishly and unfailingly generous, intelligent and good-tempered.
   Sadly the species has been hunted to extinction, so hetairas compete viciously for any man with just two of the above qualities.
 }
}

Martial {
 Epigrams {
   This slave girl, born of Fronto and Flacilla, was my delight whom I would hug and kiss.
   Don't let little Erotion fear the dark shadows and the yawning mouths of Cerebus.
   She was just that many days from finishing her sixth cold winter... May the soft turf 
   cover her fragile bones, and lie lightly upon her, earth. She was never heavy on you.
 }
}

Palin, Michael {
  Himalaya {
    He's horrendously overqualified for this sort of work, having twice summited Everest.
    On one of those occasions he arrived at the top at 5.30 in the morning, so far ahead of the rest of the 
    party that he lay down on top of Everest and fell asleep until they arrived. Now that is cool.
  }
}

Maughan, W. Somerset {
  The Moon and Sixpence {
    The faculty for myth is innate in the human race.
    
    He made enemies rather than friends.
    
    But there is in my nature a strain of asceticism, and I have subjected my flesh each week to a more 
    severe mortification. I have never failed to read the Literary Supplement of The Times.
    
    There is no object more deserving of pity than the married bachelor.
  }
}

Goncourt, Edmond et Jules de {
  Renée Mauperin {
    That great force, Fashion, which in Paris affects everything, even a priest's cassock, had taken him up and 
    launched him. People came to him from all parts. The ordinary, commonplace confessions were heard by other priests,
    but all the choice sins were brought to him.
    
    Why, yes, I should like to be rich just to show the contempt I have for money.
  }
  Germinie Lacerteux {
    Pendant des mois, elle resta insensible à tout; pendant des mois, envahie et remplie tout entière par la pensée du 
    petit être qui n'était plus, elle porta dans ses entrailles la mort de son enfant comme elle avait porté sa vie.
  }
}

Adams, Douglas {
  Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy {
    ...and recently voted the Worst Dressed Sentient Being in the Known Universe for the seventh time.
    
    "Come on," he droned, "I've been ordered to take you down to the bridge. Here I am, brain the size of a planet and 
    they ask me to take you down to the bridge. Call that job satisfaction? 'Cos I don't."
  }
}

Montgomery, L. M.  {
 The Blue Castle {
   It was so easy to defy once you got started.
   
   In the Stirling clan ankles were among the unmentionables.
   
   "Can I acquire merit by getting or doing anything there for you or Cissy?"
   
   December. Early snows and Orion. The pale fires of the Milky Way.
   
   In the horrible but expressive slang phrase, she keeps all her goods in the shop-window.
 }
}

Quincey, Thomas de {
  Confessions of an English Opium-Eater {
    ...I do not readily believe that any man, having once tasted the divine luxuries of opium, will afterwards 
    descend to the gross and mortal enjoyments of alcohol...
    
    He still had his dying to do: he was in arrear as to em(that): else all was finished.
    
    ...in fact, there was nobody at all, except one woman, apparently middle-aged, meaning by em(that) 
    from thirty-five to forty-five...
    
    But at present the whole artillery of her displeasure seemed to be unmasked...
    
    For tea, though ridiculed by those who are naturally coarse in their nervous sensibilities, or are become so from 
    wine-drinking, and are not susceptible of influence from so refined a stimulant, will always be the favourite 
    beverage of the intellectual...
    
    Here opens upon me an Iliad of woes...
    
    ...I discovered that it em(was) a decanter. Into this you may put a quart of ruby-coloured laudanum; that, and a book 
    of German metaphysics placed by its side, will sufficiently attest to my being in the neighbourhood.
  }
}

# Adding new authors below on 2022-10-14:

Godfrey-Smith, Peter {
  Theory and Reality {
    Although mathematics is clearly of huge importance in the development of physics, one of the greatest achievements in all of 
    science - Darwin's achievement in em(On the Origin of Species) - makes no real use of mathematics.
    
    For Popper, an inspiring example of genuine science was the work of Einstein. Examples of pseudo-science were Freudian 
    psychology and Marxist views about society and history.
    
    And crucially, for Popper it is never possible to confirm or establish a theory by showing its agreement with observations.
    em(Confirmation is a myth.) The only thing that an observational test can do is to show that a theory is false.
    
    The humanities had gone to hell, and now they were trying to wreck science as well, via endless relativist bleating that 
    science is "just another approach to knowledge with no special status."
  }
}

Oresme {
  ...when God created [the heavens]..., He impressed them with a certain quality and force of motion, just as He impressed terrestrial things 
  with weight...; it is just the same as a man building a clock and leaving it to run itself [written ca. 1360]
}

Galileo {
  Philosophy is written in this grand book of the universe, which stands continually open to our gaze. But the book cannot be understood 
  unless one first learns to comprehend the language in which it is composed. em(It is written in the language of mathematics)...
}

Hegel {
  Magic has existed among all peoples and at every period.
}

Thorndike, L. {
  History of Magic and Experimental Science {
     
    [Quoting E. A. Wallis Budge] The belief in magic influenced [Egyptian] minds...from the earliest date to the latest period in their history...in a 
    manner which, at this stage in the history of the world, is very difficult to comprehend. 
    
    [Quoting Breasted:] It is difficult for the modern mind to understand how completely the belief in magic penetrated the whole substance of life, 
    dominating popular custom and constantly appearing in the simplest acts of the daily household routine, as much a matter of course as sleep
    or the preparation of food.
    
    But Pliny himself feels that the assertions of the books of magic are fantastic, exaggerated, and untrue.
    He repeatedly brands the em(magi) or magicians as fools or impostors, and their statements as absurd and impudent tissues of lies.
    
    It has often been remarked that, as a new religion comes to prevail in a society, the old rites are discredited and prohibited as magic.
    The faith and ceremonies of the majority, performed publicly, are called religion; the discarded cult, now practiced only privately
    and covertly by a majority, is stigmatized as magic and contrary to the general good.
    
    The life of reason alone is free from magic.
  }
  History of Magic and Experimental Science v.6 {
    If our account seems cursory, this is partly because such works are so mystical and cloudy that a definite exposition of their
    contents is difficult, and that one dares not care to stand for long on the quicksands of their reveries.
    
    Here we may notice the plucking or digging of magic herbs at a given time with certain ceremonies, or the curing of toothache
    by saying "Anasageus" thrice, touching the aching tooth with a spear, and driving the spear into the the pavement of the baptistery.
  }
  History of Magic and Experimental Science v.7 {
    ...and on the bite of the tarantula, a poison supposed to operate on anniversaries of the original puncturing and to be 
    relieved only by dancing to certain music.
  }  
  History of Magic and Experimental Science v.8 {
    [Quoting Lord Keynes:] [Isaac Newton was] the last of the magicians.
    
    [Quoting Caspar Batholinus:] No other quality more deserves the name of occult than gravity.
    
    Boyle himself told further of a man who had wasted away to a mere skeleton but recovered by hard-boiling an egg in his own urine,
    punching the egg-shell full of holes, and burying it in an anthill. 
    
    This extremely learned and virtuous man [Jean Filesac] in 1609 had published a treatise on Idolatrous Magic, in which he asserted 
    that the transportation of witches to nocturnal sabbats had been so thoroughly proved by the most erudite of men of the age, 
    that, if anyone any longer cherished any doubt about it, he should be judged not only a wanderer from the Christian faith and 
    religion but as sadly deficient in reason and judgement. 
  }  
}

Westfall, Richard {
  Never at Rest {
    Indeed, it was Descartes and not Galileo who stated the principle of inertia in the form we accept today, insisting on the 
    rectilinear character of inertial motion.
    
    For them, Aristotelian philosophy was dead beyond resurrection. In its place stood a new philosophy for which the machine,
    not the organism, was the dominant analogy.
    
    ...when Pierre Fermat derived the law [of refraction] from the principle of least time, mechanical philosophers refused to have 
    truck with what they considered occult notions.
    
    Nevertheless, I have undertaken to write a biography of Newton, and my personal preferences cannot make more than a million 
    words he wrote in the study of alchemy disappear.
    
    By 1661, the official curriculum of Cambridge, prescribed by statute nearly a century before, was in an advanced state of decomposition.
    
    What he thought on, he thought on continually, which is to say exclusively, or nearly exclusively. What seized his attention in 
    1664, to the virtual exclusion of everything else, was mathematics.
    
    Cambridge was fast approaching the status of an intellectual wasteland.
  }
}

Toulmin and Goodfield {
  The Architecture of Matter {
    The change-over from a developmental to a static conception of matter was as profound as the change from a geocentric to a 
    heliocentric astronomy, and its effects were as far-reaching.
  }
  The Fabric of the Heavens {
    Yet ideas cannot be burned at the stake as heretics can.
    
    For Galileo still thought of "inertial motion" as naturally circular, whether in the case of a ship moving over the Earth's surface,
    or in that of a satellite circling around the planet Jupiter.
    
    It says much for Newton's mathematical facility...that he engaged in the whole enterprise as though it were an intellectual 
    pastime, while believing all the time that the questions of true importance lay in other, religious directions.
    
    Leibniz would have said that the term "field" was only a way of making Newton's miracles computable.
  }
}

C. Singer et. al. {
  A History of Technology {
    The restriction of the various Semitic alphabets to consonants is difficult to explain, but it must be remembered that the structure
    of all the Semitic languages rests on the basis of consonantal bi-lateral or tri-lateral roots. These give the essential conception of 
    the word, the vowels only providing the relations, case, tense, mood, and so forth [swim, swam, swum].
    
    The Egyptians of the Old Kingdom had discovered the principle of expressing a single sound, whether consonant or vowel, by a single sign.
    Owing to their intense conservatism, they did not fully use it.
    
    By the middle of the fourth century B.C., however, the Ionic alphabet of 24 letters had become standardized. It was the most perfect 
    instrument for recording and preserving human speech that had come into existence.
    
    It is a common fallacy to suppose that monkeys cannot oppose the thumb to the other digits.
    
    An analysis of the better-defined tools from Choukoutien has shown that the majority were chipped by right-handed persons.
    Monkeys and apes are usually indifferent to which hand they use, and the acquisition of greater skill in the one hand is a human 
    trait linked with the dominance of one side of the brain, and doubtless connected with the habitual use of tools.
    Ninety-five percent of modern adult human beings are right-handed, but left-handedness was commoner in earlier times, as it is still 
    among untrained infants.
    
    When Europeans first explored Australia there were some 500 tribes with a total population of about 300,000...There were as many 
    languages as tribes.
    
    Yet from the meagre data available it appears that all early vehicles shared one other peculiarity besides solid wheels - namely 
    paired draught.
    
    One result of [the development of Neolithic farming] is that it now became worthwhile to keep prisoners as slaves instead of 
    eating or torturing them...
    
    At the same time, metal-workers were among the first full-time specialists in industrial production, though specialists in magic 
    or religion may have become so earlier.
    
    In the Mediterranean, deforestation had become serious by classical times...
    
    The diet of the masses in ancient Greece and Rome consisted of little but bread and a porridge of wheat or barley supplemented 
    by vegetable, fish, and spice.
    
    The [medieval] diet of the masses was mainly vegetarian and frugal, two meals being usual.      
  }
}

Herodotus {
  ...since she was well-endowed with the blessings of Aphrodite, she acquired a large fortune.
  
  ...for long ago the Hellenes distinguished themselves from barbarians by their superior cleverness and freedom from naive stupidity.
  
  According to this law, an Egyptian could get a loan by declaring his father's corpse as security.
  
  In the middle of their heated argument, seven pairs of hawks pursuing and pecking violently at a pair of eagles appeared above them.
  When they saw this, they all approved of Darius' plan and, emboldened by this omen of the birds, continued on toward the palace.
  
  For even in such a short span of life, no human being is born so fortunate...that the wish to be dead rather than alive will not 
  occur to him, and not just once, but often.
}

Evans-Pritchard, E. E. {
  Theories of Primitive Religion {
    For instance, many peoples are convinced that deaths are caused by witchcraft. To speak of witchcraft being for these peoples a 
    supernatural agency hardly reflects their own view of the matter, since from their point of view nothing could be more natural.
  }
}

Frazer, J. G. {
  The Golden Bough {
    Whatever doubts science may entertain as to the possibility of action at a distance, magic has none...
    
    ...may we not reasonably conjecture that...just as on the material side of human culture there has everywhere been an 
    Age of Stone, so on the intellectual side there has everywhere been an Age of Magic?
    
    This universal faith, this truly Catholic creed, is a belief in the efficacy of magic. While religious systems differ not only in 
    different countries, but in the same country in different ages, the system of sympathetic magic remains everywhere and at all times 
    substantially alike in its principles and practice.
  }
}

Malinowski, B. {
  Magic, Science, and Religion {
    Yet when the sociologist approaches the study of magic, there where it still reigns supreme...he finds to his disappointment an entirely
    sober, prosaic, even clumsy art, enacted for purely practical reasons, governed by crude and shallow beliefs, carried out in a simple
    and monotonous technique. This was already indicated in the definition of magic given above when in order to distinguish it from 
    religion we described it as a body of purely practical acts, performed as a means to an end.
    
    [Magic] remains from the earliest times in the hands of specialists, and the first profession of mankind is that of wizard or witch.
    
    To the natives, knowledge of magic means the knowledge of the spell; and in any act of witchcraft the ritual centers around the 
    utterance of the spell.
    
    ...anthropology should not only be the study of savage custom in the light of our mentality and our culture, but also the study of our 
    own mentality in the distant perspective borrowed from Stone Age man.
    
    But there is no doubt whatever to him that all serious and especially all fatal illnesses are due to various forms and 
    agencies of witchcraft.
    
    Women and the suspicion of magical practices are the main causes of quarrels and village brawls...
    
    It is in the spell that the main virtue of all magic resides. The rite is there only to launch the spell, to serve as an appropriate 
    mechanism of transmission.
  }
  Argonauts of the Western Pacific {
    The goal is, briefly, to grasp the native's point of view, his relation to life, to realise em(his) vision of em(his) world.
    
    Disease is not conceived as an extraneous force, coming from outside and settling on the man, it is directly a man-made, 
    sorcerer-made something.
    
    But each of the rites and spells is to the native mind, quite as indispensable for the success of the enterprise, as is the practical
    activity.

    ...natives communally, as well as individually, never act except on traditional and conventional lines.
  }
}

Madame de Hausset {
  Mémoires {
    Everything in existence, said he, taking a handful of louis from his pocket, is contained in these little pieces of metal, which will
    convey you commodiously from one end of the world to the other. All men obey those who possess this powder, and eagerly tender 
    their services. To despise money, is to despise happiness, liberty, in short, enjoyments of every kind.
    
    The king [Louis XVI] gave each of his [illegitimate] children about ten thousand francs a year. They inherited after each other as they
    died off, and seven or eight were already dead.
  }
}

North, John {
  Cosmos {
    Galileo was not one of the great mathematical astronomers. He remained loyal to the circles used by Copernicus in planetary theory,
    and even in his em(Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems) he made no reference to the elliptical orbits introduced by 
    Kepler, although he certainly knew of Kepler's work.
  }
}

Barrette, Cyrille {
  Mystère sans magie {
    Le scientifique rejette systématiquement, catégoriquement, sans nuance et sans appel toutes les explications qui invoqueraient, 
    même partiellement et de très loin, le surnaturel, la magie et le miracle.
  }
}

Monod, Jacques {
  L'homme sait enfin qu'il est seul dans l'immensité indifférente de l'univers d'où il a émergé par hasard.
}

Saint Augustin {
  Voici une autre forme de tentation, encore plus dangereuse. Il s'agit de la maladie de la curiosité. C'est elle qui nous incite 
  à tenter de découvrir les secrets de la nature, tous ces secrets inacessibles à notre compréhension qui ne nous concernent pas et
  que l'homme ne devrait pas désirer connaître. 
}

Mme la Marquise de la Rochejaquelein {
 Mémoires {
   MM. de Feu et de Richeteau, qui, à la suite de quelques pourparlers, avaient la veille consenti à rester en otage, furent 
   aussi massacrés. Des gardes nationales de la plaine retournèrent dans leurs foyers, emportant comme trophées, au bout de 
   leurs baïonnettes, des nez, des oreilles et des lambeaux de chair humaine.
   
   Les paysans ne manquaient guère à dire leurs prières avant d'entrer en combat, et presque tous faisaient un signe de croix à chaque
   coup qu'ils allaient tirer.
   
   Depuis que je me cachais, je m'efforcais de donner à mes mains une couleur moins blanche, de peur qu'elles me fissent reconnaître; je
   les frottais souvent avec de la terre.
   
   Madame de Jourdain fut menée sur la Loire pour être noyée avec ses trois filles: un soldat voulut sauver la plus jeune, qui était 
   fort belle; elle se jeta à l'eau pour partager le sort de sa mère: la malheureuse enfant tomba sur des cadavres, et n'enfonça 
   point; elle criait: «Poussez-moi! je n'ai pas assez d'eau!» et elle périt. 
 }
}

Firth, Raymond {
  Tikopia Life and Ritual {
    The reasons for sorcery are mainly those of economics or of personal status; desire for land; wish to punish for theft of food; 
    jealousy of competitive achievement; resentment at a personal affront.
  }
}

Rowan-Robinson, M. {
  Cosmology {
    The statement that the universe has to have had this history in order for galaxies, stars, and ourselves to exist is verging on the 
    tautological and hardly merits the title em(anthropic principle) which some authors give it.
  }
}

Diamond, Jared {
  The World Until Yesterday {
     A recurring theme is that the other Westerners and I are struck by the emotional security, self-confidence, curiosity, and autonomy
     of members of small-scale societies, not only as adults but already as children.
     
     In 1931 no New Guinean born in Goroka had ever visited Wapenamanda a mere 107 miles to the west; the idea of traveling from 
     Goroka to Wapenamanda, without being killed by an unknown stranger within the first 10 miles from Goroka, would have been unthinkable.
     
     "People are basically the same everywhere." No, I eventually came to realize, in many basic ways we are not all the same....
     
     ...the independence, security, and social maturity of children in traditional societies impress all visitors who have come to know them.
     
     First contact with previously uncontacted tribal peoples is terrifying. Neither side knows what the other side wants or will do.
     
     Ever since my first trip to New Guinea, I have been impressed by how much more time New Guineans spend talking with each other than
     do we Americans and Europeans.... Talking is the main form of entertainment in New Guinea.
     
     As a result, food is a major and almost constant subject of conversation...The significance of sex and food is reversed between the 
     Siriono and us Westerners; the Siriono's strongest anxieties are about food, they have sex virtually whenever they want, and sex 
     compensates for food hunger, while our strongest anxieties are about sex, we have food virtually whenever we want, and eating 
     compensates for sexual frustration.
     
     Among those 20 New Guineans, the smallest number of languages that anyone spoke was 5. Several men spoke from 8 to 12 languages, and the 
     champion was a man who spoke 16.
     
     For instance, no one in the densely populated mountain valleys of the main body of New Guinea had seen or even heard of the ocean, 
     lying at a distance of only 50 to 120 miles.
  }
}

Hilbert, David {
  I do not see that the sex of a candidate is an argument against her [Emmy Noether's] admission as em(Privatdocent). 
  After all, we are a university, not a bathing establishment.
}

Philoponas the Byzantine [6th cent.] {
  For if you let two weights fall from the same height, one of them being many times heavier than the other, you will see that the 
  times required for the motion are not in proportion dependent on the ratio of their weights, but that the actual difference 
  in time is very small.
}

Flammarion and Gore {
  Popular Astronomy {
    Writers who know nothing of the true poetry of modern science have supposed that the perception of the sublime is born 
    of ignorance, and that to admire, it is necessary not to know. This is assuredly a strange error...
  }
}

Singer, C. {
  A History of Scientific Ideas {
    It therefore behooves the historian of science to be very charitable, very forbearing, very humble, in his judgements and presentations 
    of those who have gone before him. He needs to remember that he is dealing with the work of erring and imperfect human beings...
    
    In the Middle Ages languages were learned by speaking and not from grammars.
    
    It appeared about 1240 and was still being reprinted in the seventeenth century. It is one of the puzzles of history that this 
    great improvement [Hindu-Arabic numerals], represented by the "Arabic" as against the Latin system, took three centuries to gain
    general acceptance.
    
    The humanists discovered the literary works of antiquity. In them they became absorbed to the exclusion of all else. Their 
    eagerness passed into a literary vogue, and cast the blight of a purely literary education on the modern world.
  }
}

Copernicus {
 De Revolutionibus {
   ...the order and magnitude of the stars and all of their orbits and the heaven itself are so connected that in no part can anything
   be transposed without confusion to the rest and to the whole universe. 
 }
}

Capek, M. {
  The Philosophical Impact of Contemporary Physics {
    The intensity of every astonishment gradually wears off; the human mind, by the sheer effect of repetition and habit, gradually
    becomes accustomed to even the strangest and least familiar ideas.
    
    It frequently happens that within one and the same mind the true grasp of the mathematical side of the theory coexists with 
    serious misapprehensions of its physical and especially its philosophical meaning....
    
    This plainly shows that the term "curvature" is essentially metaphorical, for it is based on an analogy with curvature of 
    two-dimensional surfaces.
    
    
    ...the law of gravitation is a generalized law of inertia.
    
    What is left of the classical definition of space as "simultaneous juxtaposition of points?" Nothing but a word with 
    misleading connotations.
    
    Yet the idea of a timeless container, in which all matter is located and in which all motion takes place, has such deep roots
    in the very structure of human imagination that it is almost impossible to get rid of it.
  }
}